

--- PAGE 1 ---

Stephen P. Boyd
254 Packard, 350 Jane Stanford Way, Stanford CA 94305
boyd@stanford.edu
February 8, 2024
Hon. Lewis A. Kaplan
Daniel Patrick Moynihan
United States Courthouse
500 Pearl St.
New York, NY 10007-1312
Re: Sam Bankman Fried
Dear Judge Kaplan:
First some background. I am a Professor in the School of Engineering at
Stanford. My training is in mathematics, and I teach and write on a variety of
topics related to mathematical optimization, which is used in a wide range of
applications such as machine learning and AI, supply chains, and automatic
control. I am also a friend and neighbor of Joe Bankman and Barbara Fried,
whom I have known since Sam and his brother were young children.
I got to know Sam in his own right when he was in high school, and his
talent for, and interest in, mathematics was becoming clear. (His parents
reached out to me as one of their few friends whose work involves math.)
Sam and I met several times when he was in high school to chat about
math. Our conversations ranged from practical topics, including what he
should study and how to connect with others with similar interests, to deeper
questions such as ‘What can you do with math?’ or ‘How do people in ﬁeld
X use math?’. He asked about what I work on, and how it was used. Our
conversation included not just high level questions, but also technical details.
I was stunned to be having such a conversation with a sweet, precocious
neighborhood kid.
During these meetings several things became clear to me. First, Sam is ex-
tremely talented. I’ve been teaching undergraduate and graduate courses at
Ex. A-5
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-6   Filed 02/27/24   Page 1 of 2


--- PAGE 2 ---

Stanford for almost four decades, and have encountered thousands of tal-
ented, ambitious, and brilliant students over that time. Sam is right up at or
near the top of that cohort. But he really stood out in several other ways. He
was very articulate and thoughtful, not traits typically associated with peo-
ple in math. I found myself having a more sophisticated discussion with Sam
than I do typically with advanced PhD students. And his interst in math
was not just intellectual, but purpose driven. What he wanted most to know
was, how could one use math to do good? That is not a question I am used
to getting from my students, and it was a pleasure to explore the possibilities
with this idealistic young man over the course of our conversations.
Sincerely,
Stephen P. Boyd
Samsung Chair in the School of Engineering
Professor of Electrical Engineering
Member, Institute for Computational Mathematics and Engineering
Stanford University
Member, US National Academy of Engineering
2
Ex. A-5
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-6   Filed 02/27/24   Page 2 of 2