

--- PAGE 1 ---


WWW.NCELLULAR.AI 

NCELLULAR.AI 
1505 West 2nd venue,  
Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada
604 653 3972
Hon. Lewis A. Kaplan
Daniel Patrick Moynihan 
United States Courthouse
500 Pearl St. New York, NY, 1007-1312
January 29, 2024 
Subject: Character reference for Mr. Sam Bankman-Fried 
Dear Judge Kaplan: 
I write this letter for you during your considerations of sentencing for Mr. Sam Bankman-Fried. My 
intention is to provide greater context regarding the investments of Sam on their impact on clinical research.
My relationship with Sam was through his investment in life sciences, providing a critical source of funding 
for groups looking to revolutionize the development of medicines for more equitable global access. 
Conventional funding in this space has been restricted to large institutional bodies, resulting in inef ﬁcient 
and slow resource utilization. Particularly in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, and indeed in other 
global health crises, this model has proven to be inﬂexible to the needs of the global community.
Through Sam’s direct altruism to experts in the ﬁeld, he demonstrated an earnest desire to see 
transformational action on health crises globally. He did not self-aggrandize through self-named 
institutions, nor did he create bureaucratic machinery to bene ﬁt himself and friends. Rather, he trusted in 
the expertise of researchers and groups who were heavily invested in pushing the boundaries of science, 
and who were able to push the boundaries of scientiﬁc advances in a timely manner.
These actions do not speak to a person whose character is self-centered, opportunistic or after fame. Rather, 
they are re ﬂective of an individual with an earnest desire to ﬁght against major global health challenges 
through a truly philanthropic mindset. While I am certain that the facts of the case and judicial precedent 
provide critical guidance on sentencing, I am also aware that the character of the individual is to be 
considered. In this respect, I hope that my letter provides you with additional information that assists in 
your decision making.
Respectfully,
Louis Dron MSc
CEO – nCellular AI
Ex. A-11
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-12   Filed 02/27/24   Page 1 of 1