

--- PAGE 1 ---

  
 
 
Mark S. Cohen 
+1 (212) 957-7600 
mcohen@cohengresser.com 
 
 
Christian R. Everdell 
+1 (212) 957-7600 
ceverdell@cohengresser.com 
 
October 10, 2023 
VIA ECF 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
United States Courthouse 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
 
Re:  United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK)  
Dear Judge Kaplan: 
On behalf of our client, Samuel Bankman-Fried, we submit this letter pursuant to the 
Court’s order dated October 1, 2023.  ECF No. 305.  We respectfully request that the Court rule 
on this matter on Wednesday in advance of the defense’s cross-examination of Caroline Ellison. 
In its October 1 order, the Court precluded the defense from eliciting evidence 
concerning the presence or involvement of attorneys absent prior notice to the Court and the 
Government outside of the presence of the jury.  Id. at 9-10.  Based on our discussions with the 
Government and exhibits the Government has proposed using in its direct examination of Ms. 
Ellison, the defense anticipates that the Government will seek to elicit from Ms. Ellison that she 
was directed by Mr. Bankman-Fried to set auto-deletion on certain of her Signal and Slack 
messaging accounts.  We therefore write to seek the Court’s permission to elicit on cross-
examination of Ms. Ellison evidence concerning the involvement of counsel in creating, 
reviewing, or approving auto-deletion policies at Alameda.   
In particular, if auto-deletion is raised on direct, the defense will seek to cross-examine 
Ms. Ellison further about her knowledge of the involvement of Alameda or FTX lawyers in the 
creation of auto-deletion policies, including on the following topics: 
▪ Which attorneys were involved in considering, reviewing, and approving auto-
deletion policies applicable to Alameda? 
▪ What was the nature of these attorneys’ involvement? 
▪ What policies or communications regarding auto-deletion did these attorneys 
prepare? 


--- PAGE 2 ---

 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
October 10, 2023 
Page 2 
 
  
The lawyers’ involvement in the creation of auto-deletion policies is directly relevant to 
Mr. Bankman-Fried’s good faith and lack of criminal intent.  See ECF No. 246 at 26-31.  The 
Government has alleged that Mr. Bankman-Fried directed individuals at FTX and Alameda to set 
their messages to auto-delete to conceal wrongdoing, but whether Ms. Ellison understood that 
auto-deletion policies were instituted under the guidance of lawyers would be relevant to rebut 
the inference that these policies were instituted for improper purposes.   
For these reasons, and because the Government has elicited and may continue to elicit 
testimony on the use of auto-deletion policies at Alameda and FTX, we respectfully request that 
the Court allow the defense to elicit the above-referenced evidence in its cross-examination of 
Ms. Ellison. 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
  
    /s/ Mark S. Cohen          . 
Mark S. Cohen 
Christian R. Everdell 
S. Gale Dick 
David F. Lisner 
COHEN & GRESSER LLP 
800 Third Avenue, 21st Floor 
New York, New York  10022 
(212) 957-7600 
mcohen@cohengresser.com 
ceverdell@cohengresser.com 
sgdick@cohengresser.com 
dlisner@cohengresser.com 
cc: All counsel of record (via ECF) 
 