

--- PAGE 1 ---

 Page 1 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
March 22, 2024 
BY ECF 
 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Judge 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
 
  Re: United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan: 
 
The Government submits the enclosed proposed stipulation and order (the “Stipulation and 
Order”), related to two airplanes described in the bill of particulars filed on October 4, 2023.  Dkt. 
No. 314.  The Stipulation and Order represents an agreement between the Government; Island Air 
Capital, Capital Peak Aviation, and Paul Aranha (collectively “IAC”), who currently possess one 
of the planes, an Embraer Legacy, in The Bahamas; the FTX Debtors; and Ryan Salame.
1  Under 
the primary terms of the Stipulation and Order, IAC agrees to withdraw litigation previously filed 
against the FTX Debtors, Stipulation and Order ¶ 1; agrees to fly the Legacy to the United States 
and surrender the plane to the custody of the Government, Stipulation a nd Order ¶ 2; and the 
Government agrees to pay IAC reasonable costs for its maintenance of the two airplanes before 
they were seized by the Government and for costs associated with transporting the Legacy to the 
United States, Stipulation and Order ¶¶ 5–8.  The Government also seeks authorization from the 
Court to approve interlocutory sale of the airplanes pursuant to Rule 32.2 of the Federal Rules of 
Criminal Procedure and Rule G(7) of the Supplemental Rules for Admiralty or Maritime Claims 
and Asset Forfeiture Actions.  Stipulation and Order ¶ 3.  
 
  
 
1  The Government also provided a copy of the stipulation and order to the defendant Samuel 
Bankman-Fried.  Bankman-Fried and his counsel have not objected to the stipulation and order.  
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
              26 Federal Plaza, 37th Floor 
            
       
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 



--- PAGE 2 ---

 Page 2 
 
 
The Government is available to answer any questions the Court may have.  
 
 
 
    
              Respectfully submitted, 
 
DAMIAN WILLIAMS 
United States Attorney  
 
                  By: /s/ Samuel L. Raymond 
              Danielle Kudla  
              Samuel Raymond  
              Thane Rehn 
              Nicolas Roos 
              Danielle Sassoon  
              Assistant United States Attorneys 
              (212) 637-6519 
cc: Counsel (by ECF)  