

--- PAGE 1 ---

COHEN & GRESSER LLP 
MukS.Cohen 
+1 (212) 9S7-7600 
mcoheu@cohengtessei:.com 
Chcistiao R. Evetdell 
+1 (212) 9S7-7600 
cevudell@cohengtesser.com. 
VIAECF 
The Honorable Lewis A Kaplan 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
United States Cowihouse 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 1000 7 
October 9, 2023 
Re: United States v. Samuel Ba.nkman-Fried, S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
Dear Judge Kaplan: 
Mt:"t• · .·.,:, •• '-• • • • 0022 
+· :(ll\l.'u' ,r;,;,; r,t-,f'."-r,e. 
On behalf of ow· client , Samuel Bankman-Fried , we respectfully submit this letter 
pursuant to the Cowt 's order dated October 1, 2023 (ECF No. 305). In its order, the Court 
precluded the defense from eliciting evidence conceming the presence or involvement of 
attomeys absent prior notice to the Court and the Govemment outside of the presence of the jwy. 
Id. at 9-10. We write to seek the Court' s permission to elicit on cross-examination of Gary 
Wang evidence concerning the involvement of counsel in stmctw-ing the loans issued to Mr. 
Wang by Alameda Research. 
On direct examination , the Govemment questioned Mr. Wang about a sei-ies of pei-sonal 
loans worth approximately $200-$300 million that he received from Alameda to fund venture 
investments by FTX and to fund his purchase of a house in the Balllllllas. Tr. at 324:25-326:17. 
h1 the course of that examination , the Govemment and Mr. Wang engaged in the following 
colloquy: 
Q: And who presented those loans to you? 
A: Either Sam or a row1d oflawyei-s at the company. 
Q: What did you do whei1 you were presented with the loans? 
A: I signed the paperwork. 
Q: Why did you sign them? 
A: I was told to. 


--- PAGE 2 ---

The Honorable Lewis A Kaplan 
October 9, 2023 
Page2 
Q: What did you believe the expectation was when you were presented with one of 
these loans? 
A: That I would sign it. 
Tr. 325: 17-25. 
The Govemment 's direct examination of Mr. Wang has already elicited that FTX 
attomeys were present and involved in structuring and executing the loans, and that Mr. 
Bankman-Fried was aware of their involvement. Accordingly , the defense seeks to cross-
examine Mr. Wang further about his knowledge of the lawyers ' involvement , including on the 
following topics: 
• Which attorneys were involved in the loans? 
• What was the nature of their involvement? 
• What documents did they prepare? 
• What were the tem1S of the loan and Mr. Wang ' s obligations under the loan? 
• Whether Mr. Wang had any concerns about the loans at the time he signed them. 
The defense may also seek to introduce the promissory notes memorializing the loans to 
Mr. Wang. Further, Mr. Wang previously described his interactions with the lawyers concerning 
the loans in his proffer sessions with the Government. FBI 302 reports provided to the defense 
in discoveiy indicate that Mr. Wang told the Government that he relied on the lawyei-s and 
"didn 't think the loans were designed to hide the fact that money was coming from Alameda 
[and] didn 't think the lawyei-s would tell him to sign something that was illegal." 3585-028 at 
4. I 
Mr. Wang 's undei-standing of the lawyers ' involvement in the loans is directly relevant to 
Mr. Bankman-Fried' s good faith and lack of criminal intent. The Govemment has alleged as part 
of its theory of the money laundering conspiracy charged in Count Seven that Mr. Bankman -
Fried "took steps to conceal that [] investments and expenditures were funded by transfers 
originating with Alameda , and thei·efore funded with FTX customer funds." S6 h1dictment ,r 8. 
The hldictment further alleges that Mr. Banknlan-Fried accomplished this by bon-owing over $1 
billion from Alameda and overseeing "similar bon-owing by other FTX executives. " Id. 
Mr. Wang 's undei-standing that tl1ese were actual loans - structured by lawyers and 
memorialized in formal promissory notes that imposed real interest payment obligations - is 
1 Should the Court require , we can provide a copy of the 302 tomon-ow. 



--- PAGE 3 ---

The Honorable Lewis A Kaplan 
October 9, 2023 
Page 3 
relevant to rebut the inference that these were simply sham loans directed by Mr. Bankman -Fried 
to conceal the source of the funds. 
Further, as set forth in the FBI 302, the fact that Mr. Wang had no reason to believe, 
based on the involvement of the lawyers, that the loans were illegal or were designed to conceal 
that Alameda was the source of the funds Ulldercuts the Government 's money laundering theo1y 
and corroborates Mr. Bankman -Fried 's own w1derstanding that the loans were not improper. 
For these reasons , we respectfully request that the Court allow the defense to elicit the 
above-referenced evidence in its cross-examination of Mr. Wang. 
cc: All collllSel of record (via ECF) 
Respectfully submitted , 
Isl Christian R. Everdell 
Mark S. Cohen 
Christian R. Everdell 
COHEN & GRE SSER LLP 
800 Third Avenue, 21st Floor 
New York, New York 10022 
(212) 957-7600 
mcohen@cohengresser.com 
ceverdell@cohengresser.com 