

--- PAGE 1 ---

[Type text] 
 
e 
 
 
          
  October 25, 2023 
 
 
By ECF 
 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007  
 
  Re: United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan:  
 
The Government respectfully moves in limine to preclude extrinsic evidence of prior 
putatively inconsistent statements by Gary Wang and Nishad Singh, and in opposition to the 
defendant’s motion to admit such evidence, ECF No. 332.  
 
A. Background 
 
On October 21, 2023, defense counsel sent the Government subpoenas seeking the 
testimony of FBI agents who had written F D-302 reports concerning meetings with Wang and 
Singh, and in the alternative , requested that the Government enter into a stipulation regarding 
statements set forth in certain F D-302 reports that the defense claims are inconsistent with the 
witnesses’ trial testimony . On October 22, after reviewing the proposed stipulation, t he 
Government asked defense counsel for more information to determine whether the FD-302 report 
excerpts outlined in the stipulation  met the standard for admissibility under Federal Rule of 
Evidence 613(b). The Government also told defense counsel that assuming the defense could 
satisfy Rule  613(b), and that the  prior statements were also admissible under Rule 403, the 
Government would enter into a stipulation about the statements instead of requiring the defendant 
to call the FBI agents to testify.  
 
On October 23, defense counsel provided transcript citations from Wang’s and Singh’s 
testimony regarding the purported inconsistencies. Those transcript citations are discussed in detail 
below. The same day, the Government informed the defense that the Government did not believe 
the trial record supported admitting these witness statements under Rule 613(b), that the statements 
are otherwise inadmissible under Rule 403, and that the Government would move the Court to 
preclude this evidence. 
 
On October 25, defense counsel moved to admit the evidence. ECF No. 332.  
 
 
 
The Silvio J. Mollo Building 
              One Saint Andrew’s Plaza 
              New York, New York 10007 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 


--- PAGE 2 ---

  Page 2 
 
B. Applicable Law 
 
A party seeking the admission of evidence bears the burden to demonstrate “the legal basis 
for his proffer.” United States v. Cruz, 894 F.2d 41, 44 (2d Cir. 1990). Federal Rule of Evidence 
613(b) provides that “[e]xtrinsic evidence of a witness’s prior inconsistent statement is admissible 
only if the witness is given an opportunity to explain or deny the statement and an adverse party 
is given an opportunity to exami ne the witness about it, or if justice so requires.” Whether 
“evidence is sufficiently inconsistent to be sent to the jury on the issue of credibility is ordinarily 
in the discretion of the trial court.” United States v. Ghailani , 761 F. Supp. 2d 114, 118 n.6 
(S.D.N.Y. 2011) (quoting United States v. Hale, 422 U.S. 171, 180 n.7 (2d Cir. 1975)).  
 
As this Court recognized in Ghailani, the Court should consider four factors in determining 
admissibility under Rule 613(b): first, “whether the proffered statement in fact is inconsistent with 
the testimony sought to be impeached”; second, whether “the party seeking to offer extrinsic 
evidence of a prior inconsistent statement” has “laid a proper foundation for doing so by affording 
(a) the witness an opportunity t o explain or deny the prior inconsistent statement and (b) the 
opposite party an opportunity to question the witness about it”; third, whether “the extrinsic 
evidence of the prior inconsistent statement” is competent and otherwise admissible,”; and fourth, 
whether the impeachment “relate[s] to a material rather than a collateral matter.” Ghailani, 761 F. 
Supp. 2d at 117-18. A prior statement can only be admitted if it is “clearly inconsistent” with the 
testimony. Id. at 128.  
 
A “witness’s failure to recall  a prior statement” only meets that standard “in certain 
circumstances,” when it “is so incredible” that it “has a reasonable bearing on credibility.” United 
States v. Ashburn, No. 11 Cr. 303 (NGG), 2015 WL 5098607, at *27 (E.D.N.Y. Aug. 31, 2015) 
(citation omitted), aff’d in part, vacated in part, rev’d in part sub nom. United States v. Laurent , 
33 F.4th 63 (2d Cir. 2022) ; United States v. DeSimone , 488 F.3d 561, 572 (1st Cir. 2007)  
(upholding prec lusion of prior statement when witness testified they could not recall because 
failure to recall “ not necessarily inconsistent ”); United States v. Brown, 788 F.3d 830, 834 (8th 
Cir. 2015) (“Where a witness in good faith asserts that she cannot remember the relevant events, 
the trial court may, in its discretion, exclude the allegedly prior inconsistent statement.” ); United 
States v. Grubbs , 776 F.2d 1281, 1287 (5th Cir. 1985)  (“a claim of faulty memory does not 
constitute an inconsistent statement”). Even i f all the requirements of Rule 613(b) have been 
satisfied, the evidence must be more probative than prejudicial under Rule 403. Ghailani , 761 F. 
Supp. 2d at 118.  
 
C. Discussion  
 
The defense has asserted  that Wang and Singh provided testimony that was inconsistent 
with prior statements they made during interviews with the Government. The witnesses’ trial 
testimony, however, is not inconsistent with the statements in the FD-302 reports, and the defense 
failed to lay a proper f oundation at trial to admit the report excerpts under Rule 613. The report 
excerpts are also inadmissible because of their limited probative value as to any variance that has 
a reasonable bearing on credibility or to a material matter in dispute.  
 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---

  Page 3 
 
1. Wang’s November 17, 2022 Statements 
 
The defense seeks to admit excerpts from an FD-302 report concerning a November 17, 
2022 interview with Wang.  The defense has identified portions of Wang’s testimony that they 
assert are inconsistent with those excerpts.  The relevant portion of the report and testimony are 
listed below, in further detail than in the defendant’s motion.  
 
Testimony of Gary Wang (Tr. 485:4-25) November 17, 2022 FD-302 
Q. Isn’t it true, Mr. Wang, that at that 
meeting you told the prosecutors that the 
allow-negative flag was added to Alameda as 
part of their role as a market maker? 
A. I don’t remember exactly what words I 
said. 
Q. Let’s see if we can refresh your 
recollection. 
MR. EVERDELL: Let’s put up on the 
screen, if we could, what’s been marked for 
identification as 3585-009 [the FD-302 
report of the November 17, 2022 meeting]. 
This is just for the witness. Go to page 3 and 
blow up the last paragraph. 
Q. If we could read the first sentence, Mr. 
Wang. 
… 
A. OK. 
Q. You’ve read it? 
A. Yes. 
Q. Does that refresh your recollection about 
whether you told the prosecutors at your 
meeting on November 17 that the allow-
negative flag was added to Alameda as part 
of their role as a market maker? 
A. I mean -- I don’t remember if I said 
exactly this or not. 
Q. You don’t remember whether you said it 
or not? 
A. No. 
 
The allow negative flag was added to 
ALAMEDA as part of their role as a market 
maker. FTX treated stablecoins as 
equivalent, and FTX hot wallets needed to 
have a mix of coins to handle customer 
withdrawals. The allow negative flag 
allowed FTX to satisfy customer withdrawals 
even if the FTX hot wallet did not have the 
right types of coins. 
  


--- PAGE 4 ---

  Page 4 
 
Testimony of Gary Wang (Tr. 564:1-
565:23) 
November 17, 2022 FD-302 
Q. Okay. Well, isn’t it true that you thought 
that from a technical perspective, it would 
take a lot of work to replace Alameda on the 
exchange, right? 
A. Yes. 
Q. Among other reasons, it would take a lot 
of work to replace it as a market maker. 
A. Well, as a market—— there were other 
market makers on the exchange, so that part 
was mostly fine. 
Q. Well——  
A. But this was the other thing that Alameda 
was doing on FTX that made things——
made it difficult. 
Q. Well, didn’t you tell the FBI and the 
prosecutors that from a technical perspective, 
it would take a lot of work to replace 
Alameda as a market maker? 
A. As a—— I mean, I don’t know if it would 
affect the market maker——I mean, I might 
have said market makers. 
Q. Okay. Well, let me see if this refreshes 
your recollection. 
MR. EVERDELL: If we could pull up 3585-
009, just for the witness, at page 5. And it’s 
the third paragraph from the bottom. Sorry, if 
you could re-highlight it so it gets all of it. 
Q. All right. Now if you take a look at that. 
And just look at the last sentence there, Mr. 
Wang, see if that refreshes your recollection. 
A. I mean, it’s possible that—— 
Q. Just take a look at the document and see if 
that refreshes your recollection. 
A. I mean, not——  
THE COURT: Does it refresh your 
recollection is the question. 
THE WITNESS: Not in particular. 
MR. EVERDELL: All right. Take it down. 
Q. So you do not recall telling the FBI that 
from a technical perspective, it would take a 
lot of work to replace Alameda as a market 
maker? 
A. I mean, definitely said that would take a 
lot of work on a technical level to replace 
In the #-Organization Signal chat, ELLISON, 
SINGH, and others discussed how FTX 
would function if ALAMEDA wasn’t 
trading. From a technical perspective, it 
would take a lot of work to replace 
ALAMEDA as a market maker. 


--- PAGE 5 ---

  Page 5 
 
Alameda on FTX, and I might have said 
market maker, I might not have said market 
maker. Still depends on what the definition 
of market maker is, like if 
you——like, last time you said that market 
making was placing the order——  
Q. Mr. Wang, I’m simply asking you 
whether or not you said that to the FBI. I 
think your answer was you don’t specifically 
recall, right? 
A. Yes. 
Q. Okay. All right. Let’s move on. 
 
Neither of the proposed FD-302 excerpts from November 17, 2022 are admissible because 
they are not clearly inconsistent with the witness’s testimony . Starting with the first excerpt, the 
defense has failed to establish inconsistency. When the defense asked the witness whether “the 
allow-negative flag was added to Alameda as part of their role as a market maker,” the witness did 
not deny the statement, but instead testified that he did not “remember exactly what words [he] 
said” when he met with prosecutors. After he was shown the portion of the FD-302 that the defense 
now seeks to admit in order to refresh his recollection, the witness’s testimony was simply that he 
did not “remember if [he] said exactly this or not.”   
 
During the second day of his cross -examination, defense counsel asked Wang about the 
second excerpt from the November 17 FD -302. Wang said that he “might have said market 
makers” and did not deny a prior answer. After being shown a portion of the FD-302 to refresh his 
recollection, Wang again testified that he “might have said market maker,” that his answer 
“depends on what the definition of market marker is,” and then confirmed he did not “specifically 
recall” his past statement. Defense counsel then moved on from the topic.  
 
The lines of questioning relating to the November 17 statements are insufficient to establish 
past inconsistency, because a failure of recollection is not equivalent to a denial. See Ghailani, 761 
F. Supp. 2d at 128; Ashburn, 2015 WL 5098607, at *27 (“witness’s failure to recall a prior 
statement” only inconsistent when “so incredible” it “has a reasonable bea ring on credibility”). 
Indeed, Wang admitted that he “might have said market maker” in his prior interview with the 
Government, rather than saying he failed to recall the conversation on this topic entirely.   
 
Defense counsel argues that Wang’s inability to recall these details amount to an 
inconsistency, but the cases he cites are inapposite. Both deal with circumstances in which a 
witness claimed not to recall certain facts in toto during his trial testimony. For instance, in United 
States v. Insana, 423 F.2d 1165, 1168 (2d Cir. 1970), a witness had previously provided detailed 
testimony about a transaction before the grand jury and in an interview with prosecutors, and then 
on the stand at trial denied any memory of the transaction. Thus, his prior statement was 
inconsistent with his claimed lack of memory about the transaction. Id. ; see also United States v. 
Causey, 834 F.2d 1277, 1283 (6th Cir. 1987) (allowing impeachment of witness who claimed not 
to remember being told by her husband that the defendant had acknowledged committing robbery). 
Here, by contrast, the defendant offers nothing but ipse dixit to suggest that the witness, who 


--- PAGE 6 ---

  Page 6 
 
testified and was cross-examined for hours, was “feign[ing] a lack of recollection,” ECF No. 332 
at 4, and instead all indications are that he was “in good faith assert[ing] that he cannot remember 
the relevant events” – circumstances in which the trial court “may, in its discretion, exclude the 
prior testimony.” Insana, 423 F.2d at 1170.  
 
Perhaps most importantly, the defendant seeks to offer the interview notes indicating that 
Mr. Wang described the allow negative flag as being part of Alameda’s market making function, 
but Mr. Wang never denied, in substance, that the allow negative flag was added as part of 
Alameda’s market making function. Instead, he acknowledged repeatedly during his testimony 
that the allow negative flag was initially added to arguably facilitate the functionality of the 
exchange, including in particular to facilitate stablecoin conversions, which is fully consistent with 
the report offered by the defense. Wang stated that he did not remember the exact words he used 
when explaining this to the FBI, but did not deny that he might have characterized this as part of 
the market making function. There is thus nothing inconsistent between Wang’s trial testimony 
and his inability to recollect the precise words he used when describing the allow negative feature 
during an earlier interview. Further, Wang ultimately testified on redirect that Alameda’s special 
features may have been in part to facilitate market making. Tr. 611:21-23 (“Q. So let me ask you, 
was market making the only purpose that these special features were used for? A. No.”) (emphasis 
added). There is thus no basis for the defendant’s assertion that the jury would conclude that Wang 
“never viewed the allow negative code as connected to Alameda’s market making function.” ECF 
No. 332 at 5.  
 
Defense counsel also failed to lay an appropriate foundation for admission of the excerpts 
of the November 17 FD-302 under Rule 613(b). Specifically, while the defense showed Wang “the 
relevant part of the 302 for the purpose of determining whether it refreshed his recollection,” the 
questioning at best left unclear “whether he was denying that he made the statements attributed to 
him in the 302, or whether he was denying that the statements attributed to him were correct,” or 
whether he was simply denying recollection. Ghailani , 761 F. Supp. 2d at 124 n.36. In any case, 
because defense counsel then “dropped t he point on cross -examination and failed to notify the 
Court or the government that he would seek to impeach [the witness] on this point by extrinsic 
evidence,” it “deprived the government of an opportunity to question [the witness] on the point 
before the jury, as was its right.” Id.  Once again, the cases the defendant cites are inapposite. In 
United States v. Amato, upon questioning the witness “denied making these statements, and, after 
examining the notes, testified that the statements are incorrect ref lections of his statements.” No. 
03 Cr. 1382 (NGG), 2006 WL 1891113, at *5 (E.D.N.Y. June 27, 2006). Here by contrast, Wang’s 
testimony leaves unclear whether he denied he made the statements, whether the statements were 
correct, or whether he was denying recollection.
1  
 
1 Defense counsel also has asserted that the following portion of Wang’s testimony at page 
486 of the transcript is inconsistent with one or more of the FD -302 reports. Besides the fact that 
the following questioning did not establish inconsistency with any  prior statement by Wang, 
defense counsel also failed to give Wang an opportunity to explain any past statement, meaning 
defense counsel failed to lay a foundation for a Rule 613(b) admission.   
 
Q. You also, I think, spoke to the prosecutors again on August 31, isn’t that right? 
 



--- PAGE 7 ---

  Page 7 
 
 
2. Wang’s December 7, 2022 Statement 
 
The defense seeks to admit an excerpt from a FD -302 report concerning a December 7, 
2022 interview with Wang.  The defense has identified a portion of Wang’s testimony that they 
believe is inconsistent.  The relevant portion of the report and testimony are listed below.  
 
Testimony of Gary Wang (487:5-23) December 7, 2022 FD-302 
Q. Does that refresh your recollection about 
whether or not you told the prosecutors, on 
August 31 of 2023, that in order to do a 
stablecoin conversion that it was -- that the 
allow-negative flag was necessary for that 
and that this was part of Alameda’s market-
making function? 
MR. ROOS: Objection. Compound. 
THE COURT: Sustained. Form. 
MR. EVERDELL: I’ll break it up. 
Q. Do you recall saying to the government -- 
does it refresh your recollection that you told 
the government that the allow-negative flag 
was necessary for converting between 
stablecoins? 
A. Yes. 
Q. And does it refresh your recollection that 
you also told the government that this was 
part of Alameda’s market-making function? 
A. I don’t know if I used those exact words 
or not. I may have said market making. I may 
have also said for the functionality of the 
exchange. 
 
ALAMEDA needed to withdraw stablecoins 
from the FTX platform, convert them, then 
re-deposit them back on FTX. This was part 
of ALAMEDA’s market making function. 
 
 
A. Yes. 
Q. And were you -- I believe you were again asked about the allow-negative flag at 
that meeting as well? 
A. Yes. 
Q. And isn’t it true that at that meeting you also told the prosecutors that the allow-
negative flag was there because it was necessary from when you converted between 
stablecoins and that this was a part of Alameda’s market-making functions? 
A. I don’t remember if I used the words market -making functions or not, but I 
definitely did say the first parts. 
Q. You said the first part, but you don’t recall saying that it was part of their market-
making functions? 
A. I may well have, but I don’t remember. 


--- PAGE 8 ---

  Page 8 
 
The excerpt that the defense seeks to offer from a December 7, 2022 interview report fails 
to meet the requirements of Rule 613. The statement is not inconsistent with his trial testimony . 
Indeed, the proposed excerpt omits the full sentence from the FD -302, which when included, is 
entirely consistent with Wang’s testimony . Specifically, the December 7, 2022 interview, as 
documented by an FBI agent, stated the following (with the portion omitted by the defense in 
bold): 
 
BANKMAN-FRIED implemented the allow negative flag in August 2019. He 
did this because when converting between stablecoins ALAMEDA needed to 
withdraw stablecoins from the FTX  platform, convert them, then re -deposit them 
back on FTX. This was part of Alameda’s market making function.  
 
There is nothing inconsistent about Wang’s testimony and this past statement, much less 
an inconsistency that bears on Wang’s credibility. See United States v. Trzaska, 111 F.3d 1019, 
1025 (2d Cir. 1997) (“statements are inconsistent if there is “[a]ny variance between the statement 
and the testimony that has a reasonable bearing on credibility” (emphasis added)).  Wang did not 
deny telling the Government that part of the motive behind the “allow negative flag” was 
Alameda’s market-making activities. Instead, he testified he could not recall whether he had so 
told the Government. That is not “clearly inconsistent” with the prior statement. Ghailani, 761 F. 
Supp. 2d at 128; Ashburn, 2015 WL 5098607, at *27.  
 
The defense also cannot establish the foundational requirements of Rule 613(b) for the 
admission of the December 7 report excerpt. Wang was never plainly asked about the statement 
from the December 7 FD -302, since defense counsel instead referred to his meeting on August 
31, 2023, and as a result, Wang was never given an opportunity to explain or deny the prior 
statement, as the Rule requires .
2  Likewise, the Government was not given notice of the 
defendant’s intention to offer a portion of the December 7 FD -302 as extrinsic evidence, and 
therefore did not have an opportunity to question the witness about it. Defense counsel’s repeated 
questioning about notes taken of interviews on different dates is in sufficient to meet the 
foundational requirements of the Rule.  
 
Even if the inadequate foundation points were set aside, the proposed prior statements  do 
not bear on Wang’s credibility as a witness or relate to a material matter in light of his testimony. 
Wang confirmed on multiple occasions that the allow negative flag was initially added to arguably 
facilitate the functionality of the exchange . Tr. 364 (Wang testif ied that Bankman-Fried initially 
directed him to add the allow negative to pay for FTT -related expen ses and for conversions 
between USD and stablecoin); Tr. 488 (same) . The description of such functions as “market 
making” or “functionality of the exchange”  (see Tr. 487:18- 23) does not bear on Wang’s 
credibility—particularly where Wang was not afforded  an opportunity to explain if there was any 
material difference. Also on redirect, Wang testified that Alameda’s special features may have 
been in part to facilitate to market making . Tr. 611:21-23 (“Q. So let me ask you, was market 
 
2 It appears that defense counsel may have attempted to show Wang excerpts from the 
December 7, 2022 FD -302, see 3585-025, Tr. 486:24- 487:4, but his question asked the witness 
about a meeting on an entirely different date, and therefore cannot be a basis for admission under 
Rule 613. 



--- PAGE 9 ---

  Page 9 
 
making the only purpose  that these special features were used for? A. No.” (emphasis added) ). 
Based on the entirety of the record, the statements that the defendant seeks to introduce are not 
inconsistent with Wang’s  trial testimony, let alone inconsistent on a point that bears on his 
credibility, and are, at best, collateral to the material issues at trial, namely whether the defendant 
falsely told FTX’s investors and customers that Alameda had no special privileges. There is thus 
more than enough record evidence for the defendant to argue that “there were legitimate business 
for implementing the allow negative function.” ECF No. 332 at 7.  
 
3. Singh’s January 4, 2023 Statement 
 
The defense seeks to offer the following portion of a FD-302 report for a January 4, 2023, 
interview with Nishad Singh, which the defense claims is inconsistent with his testimony, set 
forth below.  
 
Testimony of Nishad Singh (Tr. 1531:18 -
1532:24) 
January 4, 2023 FD-302 
Q. Isn’t it fair to say that you told the 
prosecutors that you had a surprising amount 
of haziness when trying to recall events in 
June and July of 2022? 
A. I don’t remember saying those exact 
words, but I did acknowledge that there was a 
lot that I -- there was a lot that I didn’t 
remember the details around from that time. 
Q. In particular as to June and July of 2022. 
A. I don’t know if I said specifically those 
dates or months. 
MR. COHEN: Why don’t we call up for the 
witness only 3501-021 [the January 4, 2023 
FD-302], page 17. 
Brian, if you could go to the second-to-last 
paragraph and call it out, pull it up. 
Q. Mr. Singh, take a moment and read this to 
yourself. The question is whether it refreshes 
your recollection as to what you told the 
prosecutors about your haziness in the 
meeting with them on January 4, 2023. 
A. Sorry. Could you repeat the ask again? 
Q. Sure. This is whether or not it refreshes 
your recollection as to what you told 
prosecutors about your surprising amount of 
haziness in 2020 in June and July of 2022. 
Yes or no, does it refresh your recollection? 
A. I still don’t remember having said it 
specifically about June or July of 2022, but I 
could believe that I did. 
SINGH had a surprising amount of haziness 
when trying to recall events in June and July 
of 2022, and sometimes could not come up 
with a specific memory to support the things 
he understood to have happened. 
 


--- PAGE 10 ---

  Page 10 
 
MR. COHEN: We can take that down. 
THE COURT: The question was, does it 
refresh your recollection, not whether you 
could believe that you did. 
THE WITNESS: Fair point. The transcript or, 
I guess the notes themselves don't actually 
refresh my recollection. I do separately 
remember – 
THE COURT: You’ve answered the question. 
Could we move on. 
MR. COHEN: Yes, your Honor. 
 
There is nothing inconsistent between the statement in the January 4 FD -302 and the 
witness’s testimony. Singh repeatedly testified that he did not “remember saying those exact 
words” but acknowledged not remembering some of “the details.” And instead of asking Singh 
directly whether it was true or not that he was hazy when trying to recall events from June 2022, 
the defense posed their questions exclusively as whether the notes refreshed the witness’s 
recollection. As described above, a failure of recollection does not establish clear inconsistency. 
Ghailani, 761 F. Supp. 2d at 128; Ashburn, 2015 WL 5098607, at *27. The defense also failed to 
establish a foundation for the admission of this report excerpt as extrinsic evidence because they 
never gave the witness an opportunity to explain the statement in the FD -302, and they never 
gave the Government notice of an intention to offer the report excerpt as extrinsic evidence of a 
prior inconsistent statement. Finally, this issue is wholly collateral: Singh testified that he could 
not remember some “details.” Whether this occurred in June and July of 2022 or at som e other 
point, Singh’s testimony on its face provides ample basis for the defendant to argue to the jury 
that Singh “may feel obliged to support the Government’s narrative.” ECF No. 332 at 5.  
 
4. Singh’s January 19, 2023 Statement 
 
The defense seeks to offer  the following portion of a FD -302 report for a January 19, 
2023, interview with Nishad Singh, which the defense claims is inconsistent with his testimony, 
set forth below.  
 
Testimony of Nishad Singh (Tr. 1611:18 to 
1612:14; Tr. 1613:5-10) 
January 19, 2023 FD-302 
Q. Isn’t it true that you told them that you 
thought that there were points along the way 
when you had a pit in your stomach and felt 
things were wrong, but the purchase of the 
house was not one of those times? 
A. I don’t remember if those were my exact 
words. 
Q. Words to that effect? 
A. I don’t remember. 
MR. COHEN: Why don’t we pull up 3501-28 
[the January 19, 2023 FD-302] at page 9. If 
There were points along the way when 
SINGH had pit in his stomach and felt things 
were wrong, but the purchase of the home 
was not one of those times. SINGH also did 
not feel like that when he treated the transfers 
from ALAMEDA as loans without 
questioning further. 


--- PAGE 11 ---

  Page 11 
 
we can go to page 9 just for the witness, 
bottom of 9. Go back. I think we might have 
to go to page 10. Go back to 9. I’m sorry, 
Brian. Top of 9. I got it. Pull out the 
paragraph at the top of 9. 
Q. Read the first paragraph to yourself. My 
question is simply whether it refreshes your 
recollection of you telling the prosecutors 
there are points along the way when you had a 
pit in your stomach and felt things were 
wrong, but the purchase of the home was not 
one of those times. 
A. Sorry. I don’t see an exhibit in front of me. 
* * *  
Q. Again, Mr. Singh, yes or no: Does the 
passage at the top of that page, page 9, refresh 
your recollection about whether you told the 
prosecutors there were points along the way 
when you had a pit in your stomach and felt 
things were wrong but the purchase of the 
home was not one of those times? 
A. Not really. 
Q. Okay. Do you recall in that same meeting 
being asked about the political donations—— 
MR. ROOS: Can we take down the 
document. 
MR. COHEN: Yes, please. 
 
There are several problems with the defense’s proposal to admit the January 19 excerpt 
as a prior inconsistent statement. First, defense counsel never established inconsistency. Defense 
counsel never asked the witness whether it was in fact true that he “had a pit in his stomach and 
felt things were wrong, but the purchase of the home was not one of those times.” As a result, the 
witness was never asked to admit or deny the statement. Defense counsel, instead, asked a 
different question: whether the witness recalled making the statement to prosecutors. In response 
to that question, the witness said he did not recall, which is a failure of recollection, not a denial. 
When defense counsel showed the witness the excerpt from the report, he again did no more than 
ask the witness whether it refreshed his recollection that he made a statement to prosecutors. The 
question and answer did not establish an admission or denial of the substance of the statement. 
For that reason, the defense cannot now offer the prior statement. Moreover, this statement once 
again fails to satisfy the foundational requirements of Rule 613(b) , as described earlier in this 
letter, because the witness was never given the actual opportunity to explain or deny the 
statement. Finally, the statement is collateral and inadmissible under Rule 403, because whether 
Singh felt any emotions about the purchase of the home at a time when he consistently testified 
that he knew it was paid for with customer money is immaterial to the issues in dispute  at this 
trial. 
 


--- PAGE 12 ---

Page 12 
D. Conclusion
A
ll of the excerpts from the FD-302 reports are inadmissible. However, if the Court 
determines otherwise, the Government intends to confer with defense counsel on an appropriate 
stipulation rather than require the defendant to call the FBI agent s who wrote the reports of the 
meetings. In such circumstances, the Government intends to offer additional statements from FD-
302 reports as prior consistent statements to rebut the defense’s suggestion on inconsistency, or 
under the rule of completeness to prevent the jury from being misled about the meaning of certain 
statements in FD-302 reports.  
R
espectfully submitted, 
DAM
IAN WILLIAMS 
United States Attorney for the 
Southern District of New York 
 B
y: 
Danielle R. Sassoon 
Nicolas Roos 
Danielle Kudla 
Samuel Raymond 
Thane Rehn 
Assistant United States Attorneys 
(212) 637-6519
Cc: 
Counsel of Record (via ECF) 
