

--- PAGE 1 ---

 1 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK 
 
 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,  
 
 -against- 
 
RYAN SALAME,  
 
   Defendant.  
 
 
Case No.: 1:22-cr-00673-LAK 
 
 
 
 
DECLARATION OF RYAN SALAME 
 
I, Ryan Salame, declare under penalty of perjury that the following statements are true and 
accurate to the best of my knowledge. 
1. I am the defendant in the above-captioned case.  I am submitting this declaration in 
support of my petition for a writ of error coram nobis or a writ of audita querela. 
2. I was charged by information with one count of conspiracy to make unlawful 
political contributions and defraud the FEC and one count of conspiracy to operate an unlicensed 
money transmitting business. 
3. On September 7, 2023, I pleaded guilty to both charges as part of a plea bargain.  
The plea agreement (ÔÇťAgreementÔÇŁ) was memorialized in writing.   
4. On May 28, 2024, this Court sentenced me to 90 monthsÔÇÖ imprisonment and three 
years of supervised release thereafter.  The Court also ordered me to pay $500,200 in assessments 
and fines, $6,000,000 in forfeiture, and $5,593,177.91 in restitution.  I have already satisfied each 
of these obligations. (an obligation I have already satisfied). 
5. The government, during its investigation of the offenses to which I later pleaded 
guilty, conveyed to me that it was also invest igating alleged campaign-finance violations by 
	



	Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 471     Filed 08/21/24     Page 1 of 3


--- PAGE 2 ---

 2 
Michelle Bond, my domestic partner and mother  to my eight-month-old child (though BondÔÇÖs 
alleged violations are separate from those to which I pleaded guilty).   
6. During an April 28, 2023 video conference call with my counsel, Assistant U.S. 
Attorney Danielle Sassoon read from prepared talking points and explained that, although she 
could not put this condition within the four corn ers of the Agreement (as she said is often the 
practice of the office), ÔÇťif we concludeÔÇŁ the inve stigation ÔÇťas to [me], that would conclude th[e] 
facet of the investigationÔÇŁ into Bond. 
7. My lawyers, who also represented Bond, took SassoonÔÇÖs assurance to mean that if 
I pleaded guilty, the U.S. AttorneyÔÇÖs office would be unlikely to pursue the campaign-finance 
charges against Bond, and my counsel communicated the governmentÔÇÖs statements to both Bond 
and me. 
8. My counsel had long careers in DOJ and told me that they found it striking that 
such an offer would be explicitly stated in this manner; neither of my attorneys on the conference 
call had seen that type of inducement presented in pre-charging discussions and therefore conveyed 
to me that they took the statements seriously.  That Sassoon was reading from talking points further 
reinforced my counselÔÇÖs impression that the state ment was sincere, and not a thoughtless or off-
hand comment.   
9. Thus, once they reached a plea Agreement as to me, my counsel put their file as to 
Bond in storage, believing the matter had concluded.   
10. Based on the governmentÔÇÖs aforementioned representations, I signed the Agreement 
even though it did not mention the condition regarding Bond and included a boilerplate integration 
clause stating that the writing ÔÇťsupersedes an y prior understandings, promises, or conditions 
between this Office and the defendant.ÔÇŁ  Agreement at 7.  Also, when asked at my plea allocution 
	



	Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 471     Filed 08/21/24     Page 2 of 3


--- PAGE 3 ---

3
whether ÔÇťanyone made any promises other than whatever is set forth in the plea agreement that 
induced [me] to plead guilty,ÔÇŁ I answered in the negative.  
11. Although the written Agreement and my  plea allocution did not mention the 
governmentÔÇÖs implied commitment regarding the campaign-finance charges against Bond, AUSA 
Sassoon told my counsel that the government could not put this condition within the four corners 
of the Agreement, which I believed meant it w ould be honored without regard to whether it was 
aired in open court.  
12. A significant contributing factor to my accepting the plea arrangement was the 
understanding that, if I did so, the government would not pursue the campaign-finance charges 
against Bond.  And I took the government at it s word, expecting that the implied commitment 
would be honored.
13. Yet despite my cooperation, the governmen t failed to honor its stated commitment 
not to pursue the campaign-finance charges against Bond if I accepted the governmentÔÇÖs terms and 
pleaded guilty.
Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. ┬ž 1746, I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing 
statements are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.  
Date Ryan Salame
	



	

Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 471     Filed 08/21/24     Page 3 of 3