

--- PAGE 1 ---


 
 
Hon. Lewis A. Kaplan 
Daniel Patrick Moynihan  
United States Courthouse 
500 Pearl St. 
New York, NY, 1007-1312 
 
January 29, 2024 
 
Subject: Character reference for Mr. Sam Bankman-Fried  
 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan. 
 
I am writing to you in the context of a character reference in the case of Mr. Sam Bankman-Fried 
as you consider his sentencing.  I have no understanding of the details of this case. I am writing 
in the context of my interactions with Mr. Bankman-Fried as they pertain to issues of medical 
science, humanitarianism, and philanthropy.  I hope that my observations of Mr. Bankman-Fried 
will be useful to you as you consider an appropriate sentence. 
 
I got to spend time with Mr. Bankman-Fried at his residence in the Bahamas when he and the 
FTX Foundation hosted a group of leading medical scientists for a planning workshop on how 
investments by the FTX Foundation could save the largest number of lives during the pandemic 
and in the future. I was invited to Mr. Bankman’s residence for a dinner with he and his 
colleagues and we discussed the issues of the workshop. 
 
During my conversations with Mr. Bankman-Fried, I observed a genuine concern for those less 
fortunate around the world, a desire to solve complex medical needs through investment in 
entities that could move fast to create new drugs and vaccines, and a plan to prevent future 
pandemics.  As you can imagine, as he is young man without medical training, I was impressed 
by his knowledge and concern and big vision for creating solutions. At the time, we discussed 
making a big plan to prioritize poor countries and the people with greatest needs. He was very 
supportive of the ideas put forward during the workshops and made subsequent investments in 
not-for-profit and for-profit entities whose aim matched the outcomes of that workshop. It is a 
great misfortune that these plans will not come to bear fruit. 
 
I do believe that Mr. Bankman-Fried was extremely well-intentioned and shunned the trappings 
of wealth. His plan was an enormous vision, but clearly he would have benefitted from advisors 
who would implement greater administrative barriers. To be honest, I think that many advisors to 
him were unwilling to provide such advice as they were too busy benefitting from the successes 
he had achieved. He is, among many, a victim of the widespread greed in the cryptocurrency 
economy. 
 
Ex. A-12
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-13   Filed 02/27/24   Page 1 of 2


--- PAGE 2 ---


I hope you will consider my points as you decide an appropriate sentence for Mr. Bankman-
Fried.  
 
Sincerely 
 
 
Ambassador Mark Dybul, MD 
Professor of Medicine 
Georgetown University Medical Center 
Washington, DC 
   
Ex. A-12
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-13   Filed 02/27/24   Page 2 of 2