

--- PAGE 1 ---

  
 
 
Mark S. Cohen 
+1 (212) 957-7600 
mcohen@cohengresser.com 
 
 
Christian R. Everdell 
+1 (212) 957-7600 
ceverdell@cohengresser.com 
 
October 25, 2023 
VIA ECF 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
United States Courthouse 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
 
 
Re:  United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK)  
 
Dear Judge Kaplan: 
On behalf of our client, Samuel Bankman-Fried, we respectfully submit this letter to give 
the Court notice regarding certain testimony we anticipate eliciting from Mr. Bankman-Fried on 
direct examination.
1  Specifically: (1) Pursuant to the Court’s order of October 1, 2023, ECF No. 
305 at 9-10, we respectfully request to elicit testimony regarding Mr. Bankman-Fried’s 
knowledge of the involvement of counsel in certain matters; (2) Pursuant to the Court’s order of 
September 26, 2023, ECF No. 289 at 8-9 ¶ 10, we respectfully request to elicit testimony 
regarding Mr. Bankman-Fried’s knowledge of certain industry practices; and (3) We intend to 
elicit testimony regarding Mr. Bankman-Fried’s intentions and beliefs on November 12, 2022, to 
rebut the inferences from Gary Wang’s testimony that Mr. Bankman-Fried directed the transfer 
of assets to Bahamian regulators on that date, over the objections of FTX’s in-house and outside 
legal counsel, in an effort to retain control of FTX.  This would include testimony regarding 
Mr. Bankman-Fried’s belief that the Bahamian authorities and not FTX’s in-house counsel or 
U.S. bankruptcy counsel were acting in the best interests of FTX customers. 
1. Involvement of Counsel as Relevant to Mr. Bankman-Fried’s Good Faith 
The Government previously moved to preclude Mr. Bankman-Fried from offering 
evidence or argument regarding the involvement of attorneys.  ECF No. 204 at 44.  After initially 
 
1 Mr. Bankman-Fried reserves the right to decide not to testify. 



--- PAGE 2 ---

 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
October 25, 2023 
Page 2 
 
  
deferring a ruling on this matter, ECF No. 289 at 13 ¶ 19, the Court precluded the defense from 
referring in its opening statement to the role of counsel and required the defense to give prior 
notice to the Court and the Government, outside the presence of the jury, before offering 
evidence on these issues at trial.  ECF No. 305 at 9-10.  The Court explained that whether the 
defense may offer such evidence will depend on the circumstances, and noted the risk of 
confusion if such evidence were presented “without any degree of specificity about what 
[attorneys] were present for or involved in, what their tasks were, what exactly they knew, and 
what the defendant knew about what the lawyers knew and were doing.”  Id. at 9.  The Court 
further noted that “circumstances in which lawyer presence, involvement, or advice [is] known 
to the defendant at the time of his alleged misconduct might have a real bearing on whether he 
acted with or without fraudulent intent.”  Id. 
On September 15, 2023, the defense provided additional disclosures to the Government 
indicating that we would seek to adduce evidence as to the involvement of counsel in, inter alia, 
the following events at FTX and Alameda, as relevant to Mr. Bankman-Fried’s good faith:  
• In or about mid-2021, FTX Chief Legal Officer Dan Friedberg and outside counsel 
Fenwick & West implemented data retention policies, including auto-deletion policies 
for Slack and Signal communications, at FTX and Alameda; 
• In or about mid-2021, Mr. Friedberg and Fenwick & West were involved in the 
creation of the North Dimension entities and Mr. Friedberg supervised the opening of 
North Dimension’s bank account with Silvergate Bank; 
• In mid-2021, Mr. Friedberg and Fenwick & West were involved in drafting and 
approving the Payment Agent Agreement between FTX and Alameda; 
• In or about late-2021 to mid-2022, Mr. Friedberg, FTX General Counsel Can Sun, 
and FTX US General Counsel Ryne Miller, and Fenwick & West were involved in 
approving and structuring loans from Alameda to Mr. Bankman-Fried, Gary Wang, 
and Nishad Singh, and attorneys drafted the loan documents; 
• Mr. Friedberg, Fenwick & West, and later Mr. Sun were involved in drafting and 
approving the FTX Terms of Service, which were updated at various points in time 
from 2019 to May 2022; and  
As discussed below, Mr. Bankman-Fried’s knowledge of the involvement of counsel in 
these matters is directly relevant to his state of mind and good faith at the time.   
First, the Government has argued and elicited testimony that the use of auto-deletion 
policies is evidence of Mr. Bankman-Fried’s fraudulent and criminal intent.  For example, the 
Government asserted in its opening argument that Mr. Bankman-Fried “demanded that [his 


--- PAGE 3 ---

 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
October 25, 2023 
Page 3 
 
  
employees] set their messages to auto delete after 30 days” because “[h]e didn’t want a paper 
trail for his crimes.” Trial Tr. at 36; see also Trial Tr. 175:12-177:9, 448:8-20 (eliciting 
testimony from Adam Yedidia and Gary Wang that Mr. Bankman-Fried issued instructions 
regarding Signal communications and the auto-delete function).  The Government recently 
represented that it will seek to introduce a summary chart showing numerous Signal message 
chats and information about the auto-delete function for each chat.  Mr. Bankman-Fried’s 
understanding that auto-deletion policies were instituted under the guidance of lawyers would be 
directly relevant to rebut the inference that these policies were instituted for improper purposes.  
See ECF No. 246 at 26-31.   
Second, the Government alleged that Mr. Bankman-Fried “misappropriated and 
embezzled FTX customer deposits” by directing FTX to “[tell] customers to deposit funds into 
bank accounts controlled by Alameda” and thereafter using customer funds for impermissible 
purposes.  S6 Indictment ¶¶ 1, 6; see also Trial Tr. 151:14-18, 155:8-13, 156:9-158:25, 159:15-
160:12 (eliciting testimony from Mr. Yedidia that Alameda was receiving FTX customer 
deposits through a bank account labeled the “North Dimension” bank account and regarding 
what he was told by Mr. Bankman-Fried or his alleged co-conspirators regarding the reason for 
using that account).  Mr. Bankman-Fried’s understanding as to the involvement of counsel in the 
formation of the North Dimension entities and opening of its bank account at Silvergate bank, 
and in the creation of the Payment Agent Agreement between FTX and Alameda, would be 
directly relevant to his good faith belief that there was nothing improper about using Alameda-
controlled entities to accept FTX customer deposits. 
Third, the Government has alleged that Mr. Bankman-Fried “took steps to conceal that [] 
investments and expenditures were funded by transfers originating with Alameda, and therefore 
funded with FTX customer funds” and that Mr. Bankman-Fried accomplished this by borrowing 
over $1 billion from Alameda and overseeing “similar borrowing by other FTX executives.”  S6 
Indictment ¶ 8; see also Trial Tr. 324:24-325:18, 1460:1-6; 1515:5-12 (testimony from Mr. 
Wang and Nishad Singh regarding personal loans they received from Alameda and the 
involvement of counsel in preparing documentation for those loans).  Mr. Bankman-Fried’s 
knowledge that lawyers were involved in structuring and documenting the loans would be 
probative of his good faith belief that there was nothing inappropriate about the loans. 
Fourth, the FTX Terms of Service govern the contractual relationship between FTX and 
its customers and therefore inform the scope of permissible conduct with respect to FTX 
customer assets.  See ECF No. 321 at 2-4; ECF No. 329 at 2; see also ECF No. 322 at 3 
(Government noting that the Terms of Service are one piece of evidence of whether FTX had a 
fiduciary or similar relationship of trust and confidence with its customers).  The Government 
elicited testimony from customer witnesses regarding their expectations concerning assets 
deposited on FTX.  Trial Tr. at 81, 1289.  Can Sun, former FTX General Counsel, also testified 
that the Terms of Service were updated from time to time, and that the purpose of the Terms of 


--- PAGE 4 ---

 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
October 25, 2023 
Page 4 
 
  
Service “was to lay out the obligations of FTX and its customers.”  E.g., Trial Tr. 1979:10-
1980:18.  Accordingly, Mr. Bankman-Fried’s understanding of the involvement of counsel in 
drafting the Terms of Service in light of FTX’s practices would be relevant to his good faith 
belief that FTX’s practices were consistent with the Terms of Service.  See also ECF No. 289 at 
12 ¶ 16 (denying Government’s motion in limine to preclude evidence of the Terms of Service 
“to the extent that the defendant seeks to introduce evidence and argument probative of his 
alleged good-faith belief that FTX and Alameda’s handling of customer assets was permitted by 
law and under the Terms of Service”).   
We therefore respectfully request to elicit testimony from Mr. Bankman-Fried concerning 
the involvement of counsel in the above events.  The topics for which we have provided notice 
are sufficiently specific and relevant along the lines suggested by the Court’s order.  Among 
other things, we anticipate asking Mr. Bankman-Fried about his understanding as to what the 
attorneys were present for, what their tasks were, what information they were provided, and the 
impact of his knowledge of their involvement on his belief that his conduct was at all times 
proper and lawful.  At a minimum, Mr. Bankman-Fried should be permitted testify in his defense 
regarding the involvement of counsel on these topics to counter any implication from the 
testimony elicited to date that he failed to act in good faith with respect to these matters.  
2. Industry Practices as Relevant to Mr. Bankman-Fried’s Good Faith 
The Government sought in its pretrial motions in limine to preclude Mr. Bankman-Fried 
from offering evidence or argument “that other companies or individuals were using customers’ 
assets or otherwise engaging in misconduct.”  ECF No. 204 at 38-39.  The Court declined to rule 
on this portion of the Government’s motion, explaining that “any relevance of the actions of 
others in any event would seem to depend upon the defendant’s knowledge of those actions at 
the relevant time or times.”  ECF No. 289 at 8-9 ¶ 10.   
The Government argued in its case-in-chief that FTX’s use of omnibus wallets is relevant 
to this case.  For example, the Government elicited testimony from Mr. Sun that he did not 
believe that FTX customer deposits could permissibly be commingled with other funds of the 
business, Trial Tr. 1904:9-14, and that FTX utilized an omnibus wallet for all customer digital 
assets.  Trial Tr. 1900:1-3.   
We respectfully submit that Mr. Bankman-Fried’s knowledge of industry practices 
regarding the use of omnibus wallets is relevant to his good faith belief that his conduct was 
permissible.  See ECF No. 246 at 26 (citing United States v. Litvak, 808 F.3d 160, 189-90 (2d 
Cir. 2015) (explaining that evidence that the defendant’s supervisors “regularly approved of 
conduct identical to that with which [the defendant] was charged” would support the defendant’s 
“attempt to introduce a reasonable doubt as to his intent to defraud, i.e., that he held an honest 
belief that his conduct was not improper or unlawful”); see also United States v. Brandt, 196 


--- PAGE 5 ---

 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
October 25, 2023 
Page 5 
 
  
F.2d 653, 657 (2d Cir. 1952) (finding reversible error where trial court excluded evidence that 
defendants were familiar with generally accepted operational practices in their industry because 
this evidence, even though “perhaps not entitled to much weight,” was probative of defendants’ 
intent).  As in Litvak and Brandt, Mr. Bankman-Fried’s understanding of whether FTX’s actions 
were consistent with the crypto industry practices with regard to use of omnibus wallets is 
probative of his good faith belief that FTX’s (and his own) actions were proper.   
Accordingly, should Mr. Bankman-Fried decide to testify in his defense, he should be 
permitted to testify as to his understanding of industry practices regarding use of omnibus wallets 
to show his good faith and lack of criminal intent. 
3. Mr. Bankman-Fried’s State of Mind with respect to Compliance with Bahamian 
Authorities on November 12, 2022  
We anticipate eliciting testimony from Mr. Bankman-Fried regarding his good faith 
intentions on November 12, 2022 with respect to compliance with orders by Bahamian 
authorities to transfer assets from FTX to the Securities Commission of The Bahamas over the 
objections of FTX’s in-house counsel and U.S. bankruptcy counsel.  Such testimony would 
require Mr. Bankman-Fried to discuss his belief that the Bahamian authorities were acting in the 
best interests of FTX customers, whereas FTX’s in-house counsel and outside bankruptcy 
counsel in the United States had conflicts of interest.
2  This testimony is necessary to rebut the 
inferences from Mr. Wang’s testimony concerning the events of November 12, 2022 and his 
assertions as to Mr. Bankman-Fried’s state of mind.   
Mr. Wang testified about meetings that Mr. Bankman-Fried had with Bahamian 
liquidators and the Bahamian Securities Commission on November 12, after which Mr. Wang 
transferred assets to Bahamian authorities.  Trial Tr. 464:19-466:24.  Mr. Wang testified that he 
was told to do this by “government officials” and “Sam.”  Trial Tr. 465:1-3.  He further testified 
that Mr. Bankman-Fried told him to do this because the Bahamian liquidators “seemed friendly 
and seemed willing to let him stay in control of the company,” and that the Bahamian Securities 
Commissioner “believed the things [Mr. Bankman-Fried] told her” and was going to “order us to 
transfer . . . the remaining assets to the Bahamas.”  Trial Tr. 465:15-466:1, 466:17-24.  
Mr. Wang also testified that Mr. Bankman-Fried directed him to effectuate the asset transfer over 
objections by FTX’s in-house counsel and U.S. bankruptcy counsel, because the Bahamian 
authorities “seemed more friendly to him, and they seemed more likely to let him stay in control 
of the company, compared to the U.S.”  Trial Tr. 467:4-19, 470:1-471:3. 
 
2 Consistent with this Court’s order, Mr. Bankman-Fried will not “offer[] evidence that the amount of assets that 
have been recovered through FTX’s bankruptcy for purposes of suggesting to the jury that victims will be made 
whole, that the FTX Debtors’ progress in securing and recovering estate assets somehow diminishes the scale of the 
fraud, or that, with more time, FTX could have satisfied customer withdrawals.”  ECF No. 289 at 12 ¶ 16. 



--- PAGE 6 ---

 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
October 25, 2023 
Page 6 
 
  
The Government argued in its pretrial motions in limine that evidence on this subject is 
“relevant to demonstrate [Mr. Bankman-Fried’s] criminal intent and the false nature of his 
representations” that he wanted to “do right by customers.”  ECF No. 204 at 16.  The Court 
agreed and granted the Government’s pretrial motion in limine to admit such evidence.  See ECF 
No. 289 at 5 ¶ 5 (ruling that “[e]vidence that defendant selectively prioritized payments to certain 
creditors in the aftermath of FTX’s collapse goes to defendant’s consciousness of guilt and 
criminal intent, and therefore is direct evidence of the charged crimes.”).  The relevance of 
testimony on this subject has therefore already been established.   
Moreover, a defendant “has the right to prove through witnesses his statements of then-
existing states of mind which tend to rebut the government’s characterizations of his conduct.”  
United States v. Shakur, No. 84 CR. 220 (CSH), 1988 WL 34828, at *11 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 6, 
1988) (rejecting government’s argument that “defense witnesses may testify that [defendant] said 
he was afraid, but they may not testify as to why [defendant] said he was afraid”).  “The right to 
offer the testimony of witnesses . . . is in plain terms the right to present a defense, the right to 
present the defendant’s version of the facts as well as the prosecution’s to the jury so it may 
decide where the truth lies.”  Washington v. Texas, 388 U.S. 14, 19 (1967).  “This right is a 
fundamental element of due process of law.”  Id. 
Mr. Bankman-Fried’s testimony contradicting the Government’s evidence as to his 
motivations and intent behind these actions is plainly relevant.  Mr. Bankman-Fried should 
therefore be permitted to rebut the inferences from Mr. Wang’s testimony by testifying as to 
why, in good faith, he wanted to comply with the orders of the Bahamian authorities over the 
objections of FTX’s in-house counsel and U.S. bankruptcy counsel.   
Respectfully submitted,  
   
     /s/ Mark S. Cohen                          . 
Mark S. Cohen 
Christian R. Everdell 
COHEN & GRESSER LLP 
800 Third Avenue, 21st Floor 
New York, New York  10022 
(212) 957-7600 
mcohen@cohengresser.com 
ceverdell@cohengresser.com 
cc: All counsel of record (via ECF) 
 