

--- PAGE 1 ---

1 
 
 
 
 
 
             
       September 17, 2024 
 
BY ECF   
         
Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Judge  
Daniel Patrick Moynihan  
United States Courthouse  
500 Pearl Street 
New York, NY 10007-1312 
 
Re:  United States v. Caroline Ellison, 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan:  
 
The Government writes in advance of defendant Caroline Ellison’s sentencing scheduled 
for September 24, 2024, at 3:00 p.m., to advise the Court of her extraordinary cooperation that was 
crucial to the Government’s successful prosecution of Samuel Bankman- Fried for one of the 
largest financial frauds in history.  This letter describes Ellison’s substantial assistance in the 
investigation of wrongdoing at Alameda Research and FTX, and the trial of Bankman-Fried.  
 
As detailed below, Ellison’s testimony was a cornerston e of the trial against Bankman -
Fried.  As Alameda’s nominal CEO and Bankman-Fried’s former girlfriend, Ellison was uniquely 
positioned to explain not only the what and how of Bankman- Fried’s crimes, but also the why .  
Her credible and compelling testimony was notably consistent with her statements to the 
Government beginning before she was ever criminally charged, and with statements she made 
during FTX’s collapse before she became aware of the Government’s investigation.  Throughout, 
she was forthcoming about her own grave misconduct and the role she played in furthering 
Bankman-Fried’s scheme and its concealment.  In her many meetings with the Government, 
Ellison approached her cooperation with remarkable candor, remorse, and seriousness.  She 
dedicated herself to extensive document review that helped identify key corroborating documents 
in an investigation hamstrung by Bankman-Fried’s systematic destruction of evidence.  And she 
persevered despite hars h media  and public  scrutiny and Bankman- Fried’s efforts to publicly 
weaponize her personal writings to discredit and intimidate her.   
 
In light of these facts, and assuming that Ellison continues to comply with the terms of her 
cooperation agreement, commits no additional crimes before sentencing, and appears for her  
sentencing as scheduled, the Government intends to move at sentencing, pursuant to Section 5K1.1 
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
26 Federal Plaza, 37th Floor 
New York, New York 10278  
             
           
             
      
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 1 of 14


--- PAGE 2 ---

2 
 
of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines (the “Guidelines” or “U.S.S.G.”), that the Court sentence Ellison 
in light of the factors set forth in Section 5K1.1(a) of the Guidelines.1   
 
Offense Conduct 
 Ellison played a core role in Bankman- Fried’s criminal schemes, but as the Government 
noted in Bankman- Fried’s sentencing submission, only he was involved in all aspects of the 
schemes.  Ellison never worked at FTX and played no role in designing the coding systems that 
granted Alameda special treatment on FTX and permitted Alameda to accrue a negative balance 
on FTX by withdrawing FTX customer funds.  And Ellison worked as a trader at Alameda at the 
time Bankman -Fried, as then -CEO of Alameda,  implemented a system to use Alameda bank 
accounts to accept, and then spend, FTX fiat deposits.  (Tr. 657).  Once she became aware of these 
features, however, Ellison exploited them at Bankman- Fried’s direction to misappropriate FTX 
customer funds.  She had no knowledge of, or involvement in, Bankman-Fried’s illegal campaign 
finance scheme.  
Although not an architect of Alameda’s capacity to spend FTX customer funds, as Ellison’s 
responsibilities at Alameda grew,  and as greater intimacy and trust developed with Bankman-
Fried, she was given an  increasingly significant role in Bankman- Fried’s crimes.  One of the 
earliest examples is when Bankman -Fried sold FTX stock to Binance, another cryptocurrency 
exchange.  By the middle of 2021, Binance was FTX’s primary competitor and Bankman- Fried 
wanted to buy back Binance’s  FTX stock.  Bankman-Fried repeatedly told Ellison that buying 
back the stock was “really important” to him, largely because Binance was a major competitor and 
Bankman-Fried viewed Binance’s leader as a rival.  (Tr. 668).  At the time, Binance’s equity in 
FTX was worth approximately $2 billion, and FTX’s revenue was only half that amount. 
According to her trial testimony, Ellison told Bankman- Fried, “We don’t really have the money 
for this, we’ll have to borrow from FTX to do it.”  (Tr. 668).  Bankman-Fried responded, “That’s 
okay. I think this is really important, we have to get it done.”  (Id.).  Bankman-Fried then 
repurchased the FTX shares owned by Binance using a mix of FTX funds and customer deposits. 
(GX-1024). The transfer came from Alameda’s main account on FTX, which was able  to make 
the transfer, notwithstanding the fact that it had insufficient funds, because of the allow negative 
feature that had been enabled on its account. The transfers were directed personally by Bankman-
Fried. (GX-317).  This incident is one among several examples where despite voicing reservations 
to Bankman-Fried that what they were doing was wrong, Ellison nonetheless willingly participated 
in misconduct.  ( See, e.g., Tr. 664 (“I remember one conversation we had about when FTX was 
first being audited, when I asked him whether this line of credit would show up on the FTX audit 
because I was concerned that, you know, it would raise concerns with investors and other people 
who were seeing the audit, and he said, like, No, don’t worry, the auditors aren’t going to look at 
that.”)).  
As another example, d espite cautioning Bankman -Fried against it, Ellison was complicit 
in Bankman-Fried’s decision to make billions of dollars of additional venture investments  in the 
fall of 2021, despite the known risk that this would put Alameda in a position of having to repay 
 
1 Prior to sentencing, the Government also expects that the parties will submit a consent 
preliminary order of forfeiture that, among other things, will require Ellison to forfeit property 
constituting proceeds traceable to the wire fraud offenses.   
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 2 of 14



--- PAGE 3 ---

3 
 
its lenders using FTX customer funds in the event of a market downturn.  Specifically, in the fall 
of 2021, Bankman- Fried asked Ellison to determine what would happen if Alameda spent $3 
billion more on venture investments. (Tr. 703-10).  Ellison prepared an analysis, which she shared 
with Bankman-Fried.  (GX-36).  As background, Alameda did not have outside investors.  Instead, 
its trading operations were funded primarily through open term loans by third party cryptocurrency 
lenders such as BlockFi, Genesis Capital, BitGo, Ledn, Celsius, Voyager, and others.  Those loans 
were typically structured as follows: Alameda pledged collateral in the form of FTT, FTX’s “native 
token,” to the third-party lender, and then the lender lent dollars, Bitcoin, or Ethereum to Alameda, 
which agreed to repay the lent funds with interest on demand.  In the fall of 2021, Ellison told 
Bankman-Fried that Alameda had more loans than assets, and that without certain FTX -related 
cryptocurrencies such as FTT, Solana, and Serum, Alamed a’s net asset value was negative $2.7 
billion.  (Tr. 710).  Her analysis also showed that in the event of a market downturn and the recall 
of Alameda’s loans, the only way to repay third-party loans would be to borrow billions of dollars 
of FTX customer funds.  (GX-36).  Ellison told Bankman-Fried that she thought that new venture 
investments were a bad idea and too risky.  (Tr. 710-11).  Notwithstanding the risks , Bankman-
Fried told her “he wanted to go ahead with billions of dollars of venture investments.”  (Tr. 729). 
From late 2021 through the first  quarter of 2022, Bankman- Fried directed billions of dollars in 
spending, which used FTX customers’ money.  For a period of time, the details of these 
investments were unknown to Ellison, who later had to track down information on where the 
money was spent.  
The risks Ellison predicted in the Fall of 2021 became a reality in June 2022.  In May 2022, 
the cryptocurrency stablecoin Terra and its sister token, Luna, collapsed in value, triggering a 
collapse of several other cryptocurrency businesses such as the firm Three Arrows and the lenders 
Celsius and Voyager. The instability in the cryptocurrency market caused Alameda’s lenders to 
recall nearly all of their loans, and Alameda was required to repay in excess of $6 billion on 
demand. Ellison rais ed the issue wi th Bankman- Fried, who had been copied on some of the 
repayment demands from lenders, and asked what to do.  As several witnesses testified at trial, 
Bankman-Fried asked Ellison, Wang, and Singh to work on a spreadsheet to calculate Alameda’s 
balances on FTX and net asset value.  (Tr. 425-26).  That spreadsheet indicated that Alameda had 
a negative $11 billion balance on FTX, and was borrowing $13 billion in customer funds.  (GX-
50).  Bankman-Fried reviewed the spreadsheet and then participated in a conversation with Ellison, 
Wang, and Singh about Alameda’s balances.  (Tr. 439-40).  After that conversation, Bankman-
Fried turned to Ellison and told her to “go ahead and return the borrows” to “lenders who loaned 
Alameda money and were asking for it back.”   (Tr. 440- 41).  After that, as Ellison testified,  
Bankman-Fried continued to direct her “to use FTX customer funds to repay loans.”   (Tr. 765).  
Alameda proceeded to repay the third- party lenders using FTX customer funds.  (GX-1017A to 
GX-1017K).  Of the $6.5 billion that was repaid to Alameda’s lenders, almost 70 percent was 
customer money.  (GX-1018).  This scenario was far from unexpected—it was precisely the market 
downturn scenario that Bankman- Fried had asked Ellison to analyze in the Fall of 2021, and a 
reason that she had advised against additional venture investing.  Consistent with their analysis in 
the Fall of 2021, Bankman- Fried and Ellison both understood that the only way to repay lenders 
in this scenario was by using customer funds —the only differe nce was that by June 2022, FTX 
had billions of dollars more in customer deposits available for Alameda to misappropriate, which 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 3 of 14


--- PAGE 4 ---

4 
 
was used to repay lenders in full.  By September 2022, it was clear to Bankman-Fried and Ellison 
that Alameda had spent so much customer money that it could not be repaid.   
To conceal their wrongdoing, and at Bankman- Fried’s direction, Ellison created 
misleading versions of Alameda’s balance sheet, and sent fraudulent balance sheets to Alameda’s 
lenders to forestall demands for repayment and obtain new loans.  As explained above, Alameda 
financed its trading operation principally through large, open-term loans from third-party lenders, 
like Genesis, BlockFi, Voyager, Ledn, Bit Go, and others.  In May and June 2022, those lenders 
recalled nearly all of their loans, which Alameda repaid using customer funds.  (Tr. 645, 753-54).  
After that point, in order to obtain new loans from these third-party lenders, the lenders requested 
that Alameda provide an updated balance sheet.  After receiving these requests, Ellison sent 
Bankman-Fried a draft balance sheet and said, “I think it looks bad, I don’t think we can send this 
to Genesis, do you agree?”  (Tr. 785).  And he said, “Yeah, that sounds right.”  (Id.). 
The reason Bankman-Fried and Ellison believed they could not send the real balance sheet 
to lenders was because it showed that Alameda was borrowing around $10 billion from FTX and 
had made about $5 billion in related -party loans to FTX executives like Bankman- Fried, Wang, 
and Singh.  (GX-44).  Then Bankman-Fried told Ellison to “prepare some alternative ways of 
presenting the information and send them to him.”  (Tr. 786).  Ellison prepared seven alternatives 
to the real balance sheet, which omitted or hid Alameda’s borrowing from FTX and the large loans 
to FTX executives.  (GX-44).  Bankman-Fried told Ellison, “[W]e should use alternative 7” (Tr. 
795), referring to one of the tabs of a spreadsheet she shared with him, and she sent that to Genesis 
and other lenders.  (GX-17, GX-419).  The spreadsheet was misleading in several ways: among 
other things, it concealed that Alameda was borrowing billions of dollars from FTX and that these 
loans were callable at any time; it overstated Alameda’s assets and understated its liabilities; and 
it concealed the billions of dollars of related -party loans made by Alameda to FTX insiders, like 
Bankman-Fried.  
After receiving the fraudulent balance sheet, Alameda’s lenders extended new loans.  (GX-
1014).  Had the lenders known about the undisclosed borrowing from FTX’s customers, and the 
true state of the balance sheet, they would not have lent Alameda money.   (Tr. 1217-24).  But 
because of the fraud, a number of lenders had large loans to Alameda outstanding at the time of its 
bankruptcy.  Alameda’s defaults on those loans threw several lenders into financial crisis and, in 
the case of BlockFi, caused the firm’s bankruptcy just a few weeks after FTX’s bankruptcy.  (Tr. 
1228).  
In the face of snowballing FTX customer concerns and withdrawals in November 2022, 
Ellison acceded to Bankman-Fried’s request to post tweets meant to reassure FTX customers about 
Alameda’s balance sheet, despite believing the tweets to be misleading, after Bankman-Fried said, 
“I can’t be the one to tweet because I don’t want to be associated with Alameda.”  (Tr. 898-900).  
As Ellison acknowledged in her testimony, over the course of her time at Alameda  working for 
Bankman-Fried she became more willing to lie.  ( See Tr. 807- 08 (“I think [Bankman- Fried’s 
expressed attitude about lying and stealing] made me more willing to do things like lie and steal 
over time.  When I started working at Alameda, I don’t think I would have believed it if you told 
me that a few years later I would be sending false balance sheets to our lenders or taking customer 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 4 of 14


--- PAGE 5 ---

5 
 
money, but over time it was something that I became more comfortable with when I was working 
there.”)).   
As FTX collapsed, Bankman- Fried persisted in publicly denying knowledge and fault.  
Ellison, on the other hand, expressed relief that the fraud was exposed, and responsibility for her 
wrongdoing.  In an all-hands meeting with her Alameda employees on November 9, 2022— which 
unbeknownst to Ellison was being recorded— Ellison shared with her employees what had 
happened over the course of 2022, including that “Alameda had made billions of dollars of venture 
investments and had bought back FTX equity from Binance using open-term loans and that when 
the loans had been recalled, we had to use or we did use FTX customer funds to repay them, which 
had caused the shortfall,” that those involved had been Ellison, Bankman-Fried, Wang, and Singh, 
and that Bankman-Fried had made the decision on using user deposits.   (Tr. 931, 1093-94; GX-
433E-T; see also Tr. 1142-1151 (Drappi testimony about the all -hands meeting)).  While others, 
like Ryan Salame, tried to withdraw substantial sums of money from their FTX accounts in the 
days before FTX declared bankruptcy, Ellison did not.   
As Ellison also disclosed to the Government, although it was not her responsibility to 
interface directly with FTX investors, she played a limited role in the conspiracy to defraud FTX 
investors, including by agreeing to hide information from FTX auditors.  ( Tr. 664).  She also 
flagged certain chats that related to a scheme to inflate the value of FTT, FTX’s native 
cryptocurrency token, through Alameda trading activity.  (Tr. 671 -77).  Bankman -Fried created 
the token, and then conspired to engage in trading that would inflate its value.  FTT was a 
substantial portion of the value on Alameda’s balance sheet, but Ellison and Bankman-Fried were 
well aware that its paper value far exceed ed its liquid value if Alameda were ever to sell large 
quantities of the token.  (Tr. 678-81).  Bankman-Fried repeatedly touted that Alameda had positive 
net asset value, even accounting for its borrowing from FTX customers.  But he and Ellison well 
knew that they could never repay Alameda’s debt to FTX customers by selling FTT and other 
“Sam coins” on Alameda’s balance sheet, which were illiquid coins that would have plummeted 
in value if sold in large quantities.  (Tr. 678-83).   
Without any indication that the Government knew about Bankman- Fried’s bribery of 
Chinese officials (which the Government had heard about from another witness, and would later 
corroborate with additional former Alameda employees), Ellison informed the Government about 
Bankman-Fried’s conspiracy to unfreeze Alameda’s Chinese cryptocurrency accounts by bribing 
an official of the Chinese government.  Bankman-Fried told Ellison that cryptocurrency transfers 
should be made to private cryptocurrency addresses provided by another Alameda employee, 
David Ma,  to unfreeze the accounts.   A total of approximately $140 million in bribes was 
transferred to such private crypto wallets.  (PSR ¶ 34).   
Procedural History 
 On November 16, 2022, five days after FTX filed for bankruptcy, federal law enforcement 
agents executed a judicially  authorized search warrant at the residence where Ellison was then 
living, and seized her cellphone and other electronic devices.  That same day, Ellison’s attorneys 
relayed Ellison’s interest in assisting the Government.  Ellison’s attorneys provided an attorney 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 5 of 14


--- PAGE 6 ---

6 
 
proffer to the Government on December 7, 2022, and Ellison began proffering with the 
Government the next day, on December 8, 2022.   
On December 9, 2022, a grand jury sitting in the Southern District of New York returned 
an eight-count Indictment charging Bankman -Fried with conspiracy to commit wire fraud, wire 
fraud, conspiracy to commit commodities fraud, conspiracy to commit securities fraud, conspiracy 
to commit money laundering, and conspiracy to defraud the United States and commit campaign 
finance violations.  See United States v. Bankman-Fried, 22 Cr. 673 (LAK), Dkt. 1.  The charges 
against Bankman-Fried were unsealed on December  13, 2022, the same day the SEC and CFTC 
announced the initiation of civil proceedings against Bankman- Fried, and after Bankman -Fried 
was arrested in the Bahamas on a federal arrest warrant.   
Ellison proffered with the Government several times in December 2022 and provided 
credible and detailed information to the Government about her own crimes and those of her 
coconspirators, including Bankman-Fried.  On December 19, 2022, Ellison pleaded guilty before 
the Honorable Ronnie Abrams pursuant to a cooperation agreement with the Government.  Ellison 
pleaded guilty to a Superseding Information that charged Ellison in seven counts with: (1) 
conspiracy to commit wire fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1349; (2) wire fraud on customers, in 
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1343; (3) conspiracy to commit wire fraud on lenders, in violation of 
§ 1349; (4) wire fraud on lenders, in violation of 18 U.S.C § 1343; (5) conspiracy to commit 
commodities fraud, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371; (6) conspiracy to commit securities fraud, in 
violation of 18 U.S.C. § 371; and (7) conspiracy to commit money la undering, in violation of 18 
U.S.C. § 1956(h).  See United States v. Bankman-Fried, 22 Cr. 673 (LAK), Dkt. 8.  
Bankman-Fried consented to extradition and arrived in the United States on December 21, 
2022, after which Ellison’s and Gary Wang’s guilty pleas were unsealed.  
 Subsequent to her guilty plea, Ellison met with the Government approximately 20 times, 
and spent additional time outside of these meetings reviewing documents, emails, and spreadsheets 
in order to identify and decode relevant documents for the Government.    
 Ellison testified at Bankman -Fried’s trial in October 2023.  Ellison testified for 
approximately three days.  At the conclusion of the trial, Bankman -Fried was convicted on all  
seven counts of the Superseding Indictment : wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud on 
FTX’s customers; wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud on Alameda Research’s lenders; 
conspiracy to commit securities fraud on FTX’s investors; conspiracy to commit commodities 
fraud on FTX’s customers; and conspiracy to commit money laundering. 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 6 of 14


--- PAGE 7 ---

7 
 
The Presentence Investigation Report and the Applicable Guidelines Range 
 
 The U.S. Probation Office issued a final Presentence Investigation Report on July 10, 2024.  
In the PSR, the Probation Office calculates the otherwise applicable Guidelines sentence to be life 
imprisonment, based on an offense level of 43 and a criminal history category of I.  (PSR ¶  95).  
Because this exceeds the statutorily authorized maximum sentences, the guideline term of 
imprisonment is 1,320 months.  (PSR ¶ 95).  The calculations of the Probation Office, which are 
not disputed by the parties, are set forth in paragraphs 50 through 68 of the Presentence Report.  
The offense level is driven principally by the loss amount of over $10 billion, which under 
U.S.S.G. § 2B1.1(b)(1)(P), results in a 30-level increase to the offense level.   (PSR ¶ 55).   
 
Cooperation and Significance of Assistance 
By the measure of each factor set forth in Section 5K1.1(a) of the Guidelines, Ellison’s 
cooperation was not only substantial, but exemplary.   
 
Timeliness of Ellison’s Cooperation 
 Ellison’s cooperation was very timely.  Although she  did not blow the whistle on any 
misconduct before FTX’s collapse, she came clean  prior to FTX’s declaring bankruptcy to her 
employees on November 9, 2022.  She voluntarily traveled back to the United States  from Hong 
Kong, assisted the FTX bankruptcy in the time-sensitive recovery of assets, and expressed interest 
in cooperating immediately after a search of her residence, prior to being charged.  What is 
particularly unusual about the speed of Ellison’s cooperation is how many times she met with the 
Government in a short span of time, and how quickly she pleaded guilty to the full slate of 
misconduct related to her participation in a complex financial fraud.  That required numerous 
lengthy meetings with the Government in short succession, as well as  a mindset that she was 
prepared to be fully candid with the Government from the outset of her cooperation, and accept 
complete responsibility for her crimes without minimization or evasion.  The timeliness of 
Ellison’s cooperation contributed to the speed with which the Government was able to indict 
Bankman-Fried, ensuring that he did not flee the Bahamas or further obstruct the Government’s 
investigation.  It also enabled the Government to prepare for trial on a timeline that was atypically 
fast for a case of this nature.   
The Value of Ellison’s Cooperation 
 Ellison’s testimony was critical to indict and convict Bankman-Fried, and to understanding 
both the timeline of the fraud schemes, and the various layers of wrongdoing.  In short, the “what” 
and “how” of the crimes, as well as the “why,” would have been difficult to prove without Ellison’s 
testimony, and, at the very least , the Government’s evidence on these points would have been 
incomplete.  
 A common refrain from Bankman-Fried in the aftermath of FTX’s collapse was that he did 
not learn of Alameda’s debt to FTX until the eleventh hour, and that he was at most negligent in 
overseeing his businesses.  Ellison’s testimony gave the lie to that narrative.  The trial evidence 
established that Bankman-Fried directed Ellison to create spreadsheets, make monetary transfers, 
post tweets, and communicate with outside parties in a deliberate and self -protective attempt to 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 7 of 14


--- PAGE 8 ---

8 
 
leave no trace of his own fingerprints.  Bankman -Fried appointed Ellison and Sam Trabucco co-
CEOs of Alameda in the summer of 2021, explaining “that he thought it was important to separate 
Alameda and FTX more optically and not have [Bankman-Fried] be too officially associated with 
Alameda” because “it was a concern that a lot of FTX customers had that Alameda and FTX’s 
relationship was too close and, therefore, that FTX might favor Alameda over other traders.”  (Tr. 
683).  Upon being appointed CEO, Ellison ’s salary did not change, Bankman-Fried did not grant 
her an equity stake in Alameda (over which he retained 90% ownership), and Ellison continued to 
report to Bankman-Fried.  (Tr. 685-87).  As Ellison explained, “for any major decisions I would 
always run them by Sam, and I would always ultimately defer to Sam if he thought that we should 
do something.”  (Tr. 687).  The purpose of this arrangement was laid bare in the aftermath of 
FTX’s collapse.   
After Alameda’s spending of FTX customer funds was exposed, Bankman-Fried launched 
a public relations campaign that revolved around the false assertion that he “was not involved at 
all in Alameda trading and hadn’t been for years,” and that he was “intenti onally not getting 
involved in it because [he] was concerned about a conflict of interest.”  (Tr. 2578- 80).  He also 
claimed that he had “walled” himself off from Alameda trading and risk management, effectively 
laying the blame at Ellison’s feet, Alameda’ s nominal CEO.  (Tr. 2581- 82).  This fiction was 
impossible to maintain at trial in the face of overwhelming evidence of Bankman-Fried’s oversight 
of Alameda, including, most prominently, the facts that Ellison recounted during her testimony.  
(See, e.g., Tr. 2570 (Bankman- Fried testimony that he had “some involvement” in “higher -level 
discussions and hedging-related trading discussions”)).  Despite Bankman-Fried’s care not to draft 
a single spreadsheet and to autodelete his Signal communications, the documentary evidence 
corroborated Ellison’s account that not only was Bankman-Fried well aware of Alameda’s misuse 
of FTX customer funds, but he was also the ultimate decision -maker who engineered the fraud 
against FTX customers and investors, and Alameda’s lenders.  ( See, e.g. , GX-44, GX-50, and 
associated metadata exhibits GX- 44M, GX-50M; see also, e.g., Tr. 737- 38 (describing update 
documents about Alameda that Ellis on “regularly” sent to Bankman- Fried for “comments and 
feedback”).     
Of the cooperating witnesses, Ellison was the only one who worked at Alameda through 
2022.  She was therefore uniquely positioned to describe Bankman-Fried’s continued oversight of 
Alameda’s trading, his involvement in repaying Alameda’s lenders with FTX customer funds in 
2022, the state of Alameda’s balance sheet throughout 2022, Alameda’s inability to repay its 
gargantuan debt to FTX customers, and Bankman- Fried’s continued insistence on making 
additional investments using FTX customer funds into the Fall  of 2022.  Ellison rebutted 
Bankman-Fried’s false assertion that he did not know about Alameda’s negative balance on FTX 
until the Fall of 2022, and that he was too distracted and overextended to pay sufficient attention 
to Alameda.  (See, e.g., Tr. 764-77).  Her testimony was corroborated by other witnesses, including 
Singh and Wang, who also described the discussions with Bankman-Fried in June 2022 about the 
size of Alameda’s negative balance on FTX.  ( See GX-50, GX-50M).  Ellison also provided 
significant assistance in understanding Alameda’s finances.  After FTX’s collapse, it became clear 
that, by design, FTX and Alameda lacked appropriate corporate controls and trustworthy systems 
for tracking financial information.  This made reconstructing the flow of funds particularly 
challenging.  Ellison provided information about the significance of various Alameda accounts to 
assist in calculating Alameda’s NAV and the us e of FTX customer funds, and helped translate 
various financial spreadsheets that did not conform to traditional accounting conventions.   
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 8 of 14


--- PAGE 9 ---

9 
 
Ellison’s cooperation was also important to charge and prove  Bankman-Fried’s fraud on 
Alameda’s lenders, a serious fraudulent scheme in its own right that ultimately threw several of 
Alameda’s lenders into financial crisis, and, in the case of BlockFi, caused the firm’s bankruptcy 
just a few weeks after FTX’s bankruptcy.  (Tr. 1228).  Ellison was Bankman- Fried’s sole co-
conspirator in the scheme to defraud Alameda’s lenders.  At the outset of her cooperation, she 
described creating a spreadsheet with multip le tabs at Bankman -Fried’s direction; the first tab 
contained Alameda’s accurate balance sheet, and the remaining tabs were different ways Ellison 
proposed of obfuscating Alameda’s true financial condition in order to deceive its lenders.  Ellison 
described Bankman -Fried selecting which fraudulent balance sheet to share with Alameda’s 
lenders.  That balance sheet became the template used in the ensuing months to forestall the recall 
of Alameda’s loans and mislead Alameda’s lenders into extending new loans.  At the time Ellison 
described the fraud on Alameda’s lenders, the Government had yet to identify the seven- tab 
spreadsheet.  The spreadsheet was ultimately identified because in addition to proffering with the 
Government, Ellison combed through hundreds of google documents and excel spreadsheets in the 
Government’s discovery to identify relevant evidence, including the seven-tab spreadsheet.  The 
document metadata confirmed Ellison’s account: the spreadsheet was created at the time of 
Alameda’s fraud on its lenders, after one of Alameda’s lenders had asked for an updated balance 
sheet.  ( See GX-44M).  Metadata also showed that Bankman -Fried reviewed the spreadsheet 
immediately before Ellison converted one of the fraudulent spreadsheet tabs into a balance sheet 
to send to an Alameda lender.  (See GX-44M; Tr. 783-803).  There could be no innocent or credible 
explanation for his review of the spreadsheet, and Ellison’s testimony about the spreadsheet, the  
spreadsheet itself, and the accompanying metadata, led to the  inescapable conclusion that 
Bankman-Fried was lying when he claimed no intent to defraud, and no knowledge of Alameda’s 
debt to FTX customers in the Spring of 2022.  
In her review of discovery materials, Ellison also flagged the importance of Government 
Exhibit 36, a spreadsheet entitled “NAV Minus Sam Coins.”  As described above, this spreadsheet 
contained Ellison’s analysis in response to Bankman- Fried’s request that Ellison determine the 
risks if Alameda spent $3 billion more on venture investments.  (Tr. 707 -10).  At first glance, the 
spreadsheet was impenetrable and looked nothing like a traditional financial analysis.  The second 
tab of the spreadsheet, “questions ,” contained over 120 rows, some with mathematical 
calculations, others with questions, and some additional analysis out of sequence in columns E, F, 
and G.  Without Ellison’s testimony, the context of this document, and its meaning, would have 
been impossible to relay coherently to the jury.  But with her testimony, it was proof of Bankman-
Fried’s guilty intent, his knowledge, and his motive.  As Ellison explained, her analysis in the 
spreadsheet showed: (1) Alameda’s positive net asset value depended  on large amounts of “Sam 
coins” on the balance sheet, which had dubious liquid value, and without which Alameda had a 
negative net asset value; (2) Alameda was already borrowing heavily from FTX customers; and 
(3) if Alameda made an additional $3 billion in ve nture investments, in the event of a market 
downturn, it would not be able to repay its lenders without borrowing billions more from FTX 
customers.  After reviewing this analysis with Ellison, Bankman- Fried did not dispute the risks, 
but decided to make the investments anyway.  (Tr. 710-29; GX-36).  Ellison spent substantial 
amounts of time explaining this spreadsheet to the Government, and then preparing to testify about 
the spreadsheet in a manner that would be accessible to a jury.   
Ellison’s testimony about Government Exhibit 36 is just one example of how her testimony 
gave the jury a more complete picture of how the criminal scheme escalated, and refuted Bankman-
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 9 of 14


--- PAGE 10 ---

10 
 
Fried’s excuses that he inadvertently got in over his head.  Given Bankman-Fried’s disingenuous 
campaign in the media —and then in his testimony—to portray himself as well -meaning but 
hapless, this was a case where it was particularly important to shed light on Bankman-Fried’s 
motive, even if it was not an element of the crime.  As Bankman -Fried’s former associate and 
romantic partner, Ellison described Bankman-Fried’s outsize appetite for risk, his desire for power 
and influence, and his cavalier attitude a bout honesty, in a compelling and credible manner.  Her 
testimony about Bankman-Fried’s influence and power over her was all the more credible because 
Ellison at no point has attempted to wield that as an excuse for her own misjudgments and 
wrongdoing.  Instead, she expressed genuine shame and remorse on the stand, as she does now 
before sentencing.  
The information Ellison provided about bribery of Chinese officials was crucial to charging 
Bankman-Fried with conspiracy to commit FCPA bribery.  Without the Bahamas consent, the 
Government did not proceed on this count at trial, but Ellison testified about the bribery scheme 
to help the jury understand how the criminal relationship of trust between Ellison and Bankman-
Fried developed, and how Bankman-Fried had a cavalier attitude about the law when it served the 
needs of his business.  (Tr. 827-40).   
As confirmed by SEC and CFTC, Ellison also provided valuable assistance to the SEC and 
CFTC in their parallel investigations for similar reasons.  From her first proffer, Ellison answered 
questions in a room filled with law enforcement agents, Assistant U.S. Attorneys, and 
representatives from the SEC and CFTC who were conducting their own parallel investigations.  
The SEC’s civil complaints relied in part on information provided by Ellison or corroborated by 
her.  I n addition to the SEC’s interest in the fraud on FTX investors, Ellison provided the SEC 
with detailed information about the potential manipulation of “Sam coins,” including FTT, and 
information us eful to ongoing investigations of other cryptocurrency frauds and market 
manipulation by other market makers in the crypto industry.  
 
As described by the CFTC, Ellison voluntarily provided substantial assistance to the CFTC 
in its civil enforcement actions against Mr. Bankman -Fried, the FTX and Alameda entities, and 
others. Ms. Ellison entered into a written Cooperation Agreement with the CFTC’s Division of 
Enforcement on December 20, 2022, and the CFTC entered into a Consent Order of Judgement on 
Liability as to the CFTC’s civil charges against her on December 23, 2022.  See CFTC v. Bankman-
Fried et al. , No. 22- cv-10503 (S.D.N.Y. Dec. 23, 2022), ECF No. 26.  In t hat order, Ellison 
admitted that she engaged in the charged conduct and accepted responsibility for her actions. 
 
  
Both before and after the date of Ellison’s cooperation agreement with the Division of 
Enforcement, she provided material assistance in connection with the CFTC’s action against FTX, 
Alameda and Bankman-Fried.  The CFTC’s action against the FTX and Alameda entities resulted 
in a $12.7 Billion consent judgment, with all monetary relief used to compensate to FTX customers 
and victims of FTX’s fraud. See Consent Order For Permanent Injunction and Other Equitable 
Relief Against Defendants FTX Trading Ltd. d/b/a FTX.com and Alameda Research, LCC, CFTC 
v. Bankman-Fried et al., No. 22- cv-10503 (S.D.N.Y. Aug. 7, 2024), ECF No. 44.  The CFTC’s 
action against Bankman -Fried continues, and Ms. Ellison has agreed to continue providing 
information to the CFTC, and to testify in that action, as needed. 
 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 10 of 14


--- PAGE 11 ---

11 
 
Ellison’s Truthfulness and Reliability 
 As noted above, Ellison stood out not only for the speed of her cooperation, but for her 
consistent candor beginning in her very first meeting with the Government.  She accepted full 
responsibility from her very first proffer and did not minimize or shift blame.  She provided as 
much detail as possible about crimes that the Government was already investigating, and alerted 
the Government to other criminal activity too.  Among other things, she disclosed the conspiracy 
to defraud Alameda’s lenders, as well as the bribery of Chinese officials.  Even before she knew 
what documents the Government had obtained, or what information the Government had about the 
creators of those documents, Ellison was forthright that she drafted some of the most incriminating 
documents in the case, including the seven- tab spreadsheet of misleading balance sheets used to 
defraud Alameda’s lenders.  She was candid that although she raised concerns with Bankman-
Fried at several points along the way, she ultimately put up minimal resis tance to participating in 
wrongdoing and deceit.  She was also honest that she became more comfortable with lying and 
deceit the longer she worked at Alameda.   
 Ellison’s testimony was credible for its consistency and her earnest demeanor on the stand.  
But it was also corroborated by exhibits, spreadsheets, chats, the testimony of other witnesses 
(such as Yedidia, Drappi, Singh, and Wang), and the Government’s interviews with other former 
Alameda employees.   
 Documents contemporaneous with the fraud show that Bankman-Fried wielded significant 
influence over Ellison in their personal and professional relationship—a dynamic that does not 
excuse Ellison’s misjudgments but that corroborates her role and culpability in the fraud schemes 
relative to Bankman-Fried.  Ellison’s private writings during her employment at Alameda and her 
on-again, off -again romantic relationship with Bankman -Fried illustrate the imbalanced power 
dynamic between Ellison and Bankman- Fried, and that she routinely deferred to him and sought 
his approval (witnesses who were familiar with Ellison and Bankman -Fried’s relationship made 
similar observations to the Government) .  Ellison’s handwritten journal, which law enforcement 
seized from Ellison’s residence, and for which she gave consent to search, described her 
unhappiness at work in the Bahamas where she felt her “self -worth” was “coming from Sam’s 
approval.”  She wrote that the times “I feel worst” are “interacting with Sam” and “feeling left out 
and powerless in group decisions.”  Even when Ellison and Bankman- Fried were romantically 
involved, she confided in him that when he avoided her it made her “feel insecure ,” that she felt 
“we’re always in manager/employee mode,” and that “when you are around, I have an instinct to 
shrink and become smaller and quieter and defer to others.”  The Government found no evidence 
that Ellison enjoyed the wealth generated by the fraud.  Instead, in a letter to Bankman- Fried that 
is characteristic of the sentiments she was expressing during her time in the Bahamas, she 
described being “stretched beyond [her] limits at work,” “unhappy and overwhelmed” by her job, 
unexcited to go to work, and feeling “like there’s [no] end in sight.”  ( See also Tr. 763 (Ellison 
describing her “constant state of dread” in the Spring of 2022)).    
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 11 of 14


--- PAGE 12 ---

12 
 
 Oftentimes, a defendant will come before the G overnment or the C ourt to accept 
responsibility and express remorse, and it requires a degree of trust that these are not merely self-
serving remarks to obtain a lower sentence or a disingenuous appeal to the Court’s mercy.  Rarely, 
however, does the Court have an independent basis to credit the defendant’s earnest remorse and 
acceptance as it does here in the form of Ellison’s remarks at the November 9, 2022 all -hands 
meeting, which Ellison did not know were being recorded, and during which she acknowledged 
her wrongdoing not out of self -interest, but because she understood that she had wronged her 
employees, FTX customers, Alameda’s lenders, and others affected by FTX’s collapse.   
Professional and Personal Consequences from Cooperation 
 
 Ellison cooperated at great personal and professional cost, enduring harsh media and public 
scrutiny and attempted witness tampering by Bankman-Fried.   
 
During her time as CEO of Alameda, Ellison kept a relatively low profile, doing few 
interviews and public appearances.  Ellison’s attitude toward the spotlight places her in marked 
contrast with Bankman-Fried, who graced the covers of magazines like Fortune and Forbes, and 
cultivated a high public profile.  ( See GX-1619 (January 5, 2022 chat where Ellison says her 
“instincts are more toward under the radar,” and Bankman-Fried responds, “Same, except exactly 
the opposite.”) ).  In part because of FTX’s astounding rise and fall, and in part because of 
Bankman-Fried’s former relationship with the media, this case received outsized press attention.  
Substantial media attention was directed at Ellison in particular, due to her role in the crimes, 
Bankman-Fried’s statements that he was not responsible for what took place at Alameda, and her 
prior relationship with Bankman-Fried and cooperation against her former boyfriend.   
 
Unlike typical press and public attention for criminal conduct, the scrutiny of Ellison was 
extremely personal and probing.  The most salient example is the New York Times article published 
on July 20, 2023, Inside the Private Writings of Caroline Ellison, Star Witness in the FTX Case.  
The article claimed to “offer new insight into Ms. Ellison’s psychology during the final months of 
FTX,” drew from Ellison’s “thoughts on private Google documents” that were “personal and raw,” 
dissected her former romantic relationship with Bankman -Fried, and quoted Ellison’s private 
writings about being unhappy and overwhelmed, and hurt and rejected by Bankman- Fried.  
Bankman-Fried provided Ellison’s otherwise private documents to the New York Times in an effort 
to damage her credibility and reputation in the court of public opinion, and to intimidate her in 
advance of her trial testimony.  As the Court observed at Bankman-Fried’s detention hearing about 
the documents Bankman-Fried provided to the press:  
 
[T]he content of these documents in some respects tends to support the conclusion 
they are extremely, in some parts, personal and intimate.  Those parts are 
relationship oriented, not business, commercially or legally oriented . . . parts of the 
content . . . are something that someone who has be en in a relationship, or is in a 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 12 of 14


--- PAGE 13 ---

13 
 
relationship, would be very unlikely to share with anybody, le[a]st [of all] the New 
York Times, except to hurt, discredit, and frighten the subject of the material. 
 
(8/11/2023 Tr. at 36-37).   
 
 While public scrutiny of a criminal defendant’s or cooperator’s criminal misconduct is 
understandable, Ellison endured far more than that.  She was mobbed outside the courthouse for 
comment and photographs, making it difficult to enter and exit without an escort, her physical 
appearance was scrutinized  and criticized, and she was mocked in memes and other content on 
social media.  She was featured in Michael Lewis’s New York Times bestseller, Going Infinite, 
which included details about Ellison that she had shared with a therapist, who in turn divulged that 
information to Lewis.  Her cooperation required her to testify against her former boss and 
boyfriend, who at the time of their personal and professional relationship held the lion’s share of 
power and influence at FTX and Alameda.  And on top of humiliating her in the press, Bankman-
Fried laughed, visibly shook his head, and scoffed at Ellison during her testimony.  (Tr. 873).  
News articles about her trial testimony, accompanied by her photograph, abounded.  Numerous 
films and TV shows are in production about the downfall of FTX, which will only perpetuate the 
public scrutiny Ellison has faced to date.   The Government cannot think of another cooperating 
witness in recent history who has received a greater  level of attention and harassment.  The 
attendant professional consequences of this level of notoriety are obvious and unlikely to be short-
lived.  Throughout, however, and certainly during her testimony, Ellison steadfastly remained 
candid and dedicated to telling the truth—as emb arrassing as it often was for her— and in assisting 
with bringing the most culpable party to justice.  
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 13 of 14


--- PAGE 14 ---

14 
 
 
Conclusion 
  As set forth above, the Government believes that Ellison  provided substantial assistance 
to the Government.  Accordingly, as discussed, assuming Ellison continues to comply with the 
terms of her cooperation agreement, the Government intends to request at sentencing that the Court 
sentence Ellison in light of the factors set forth in Section 5K1.1(a) of the Guidelines. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
      DAMIAN WILLIAMS 
        United States Attorney 
 
 
     By:    /s/ Danielle R. Sassoon    
Danielle R. Sassoon 
Danielle Kudla 
Thane Rehn 
Nicolas Roos 
      Assistant United States Attorneys 
      Southern District of New York 
 
 
cc: Anjan Sahni, Esq. (by ECF) 
 Stephanie Avakian, Esq. 
 Peter G. Neiman, Esq. 
 Nicholas Werle, Esq. 
 
 
 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 502     Filed 09/17/24     Page 14 of 14