

--- PAGE 1 ---

[Type text] 
 
e 
 
 
										
  October 24, 2023 
 
 
By ECF 
 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007  
 
  R e :  United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan:  
 
The Government respectfully submits this lett er in response to th e defendant’s revised 
requests to charge (Dkt. 327 and 327-1), which contain numerous proposed instructions that are 
inconsistent with the law, would be likely to co nfuse the jury, and should not be included in the 
Court’s charge. More generally, the Government submits that wherever there is a difference 
between the Government’s reque st and the defense request, th e Government’s proposal more 
accurately captures the applicable law than the defendant’s proposal. Because the Government has 
submitted its own proposed jury charges and understands that the Court will hold a charge 
conference, the Government does not offer a line-by-line response or objection to the defendant’s 
requests, but instead seeks to draw the Court’s attention to principal substantive areas of the 
defendant’s revised requests that the Government believes are either contrary to or materially 
misstate applicable law, or are particularly likely to mislead or confuse the jury. 
 
Defense Request No. 2: The Defendant’s Proposed Added Language Is Confusing 
 
In his proposed Defense Request No. 2, “Crime s Defined by Statute Only,” the defendant 
now includes the sentence “A witness’s stated feeling or belief as to what the law should or should 
not have prohibited is not sufficient to convi ct anyone of any charge.” (Dkt. 327-1 (“Deft. 
Redline”) at 7). That sentence is not found in Judge Oetken’s charge in United States v. Danilovich, 
12 Cr. 171, which is the only precedent that the defendant cites. Moreover, there has not been any 
trial testimony in which a witness has expressed a belief about what the law “should or should not 
have prohibited.” Thus, the defendant’s proposed instruction does not appear to serve any purpose 
other than to improperly suggest that the jury should disregard testimony in which the defendant’s 
victims and employees have e xplained their understanding of  how the defendant’s business 
operated and treated customer funds. That testimony did not involve witness beliefs about the law, 
but witness beliefs about the facts, which were based on the defendant’s own representations and 
course of conduct.  
 
 
 
The Silvio J. Mollo Building 
              O n e  S a i n t  A n d r e w ’ s  P l a z a  
              New York, New York 10007  
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District o
f New York 


--- PAGE 2 ---

  Pa ge 2 
 
 
In addition to the flaws in the defendant’s pr oposed revision to this instruction, the entire 
instruction that crimes are defined by statute only is unnecessary. The same idea is fully captured 
in the Government’s request to charge, which makes clear that the jury must find that the 
Government has proven each of the elements of each charged crime in order to convict. But if the 
Court were to give the defendant’s  requested instruction modeled on Danilovich, it should not 
include the extraneous and potentially confusing language about witness beliefs that is proposed 
in the defendant’s revised request to charge. 
 
Defense Request No. 5: The Defendant’s Revised Proposed Jury Instruction on Misappropriation  
Is Legally Erroneous and Confusing 
 
Prior to trial, both parties submitted a request to charge the jury that contained a definition 
of “misappropriation” drawn from applicable case law. The Government proposed a definition of 
“misappropriation” as “the fraudul ent appropriation to one’s own use of mone y or property that 
was entrusted to one’s care by someone else.”  (Dkt. 214 at 8). The defendant proposed a 
substantively identical definiti on. (Dkt. 215 at 11 (defining misap propriation as “the fraudulent 
appropriation to one’s own use of the money or goods entrusted to one’s care by another”)). Both 
parties’ proposed definitions were drawn from the definition gi ven by the Supreme Court in 
Carpenter v. United States , 484 U.S. 19, 27 (1987). The Government’s proposed instruction 
provided further explanation to the jury of this concept, m odeled closely on this Court’s 
instructions in United States v. Gatto, No. 17 Cr. 686 (LAK) (S.D.N.Y. Oct. 1, 2018) and United 
States v. Blaszczak, No. 17 Cr. 357 (LAK) (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 2 7, 2018), and other precedent in this 
District. (See Dkt. 214 at 8-10). 
 
In his revised request to  charge, the defendant has deleted the language from Carpenter 
that he previously proposed as a definition of misappropriation, and has instead proposed an 
instruction that is unprecedented, legally wrong, and likely to confuse and mislead the jury about 
the applicable law. (Deft. Red line at 13-15). In particular, the defendant proposes to improperly 
focus the jury’s attention on the FTX terms of se rvice to the exclusion of  other evidence in the 
case, and erroneously suggests that the defendan t is guilty of the misa ppropriation of customer 
deposits only if the jury finds a violation of the terms of service. That is simply wrong as a matter 
of law. As the Government has pr eviously briefed, a wire fraud charge does not require a breach 
of contract; indeed, the Supreme Court in Carpenter expressly upheld application of a wire fraud 
misappropriation theory “even in the absence of a written contract.” 484 U.S. at 27. (See also Dkt. 
322 (Government letter containing additional author ity on this issue)). Nor would some form of 
warning or waiver contained in a contract provide a defe nse to otherwise material 
misrepresentations. United States v. Weaver, 860 F.3d 90, 97 (2d Cir. 2017). Thus, the defendant’s 
attempt to reduce the evidence in this case to the FTX terms of service should be rejected. The jury 
may consider all the representati ons, omissions, and actions of th e defendant and his agents to 
determine whether he breached a “fiduciary duty or  similar relationship of trust and confidence,” 
which includes a relationship in which another person “entrust[s] the fiduciary with custody over 
property.” United States v. Chestman, 947 F.2d 551, 569 (2d Cir. 1991). 
 
Tellingly, the defendant does not cite any precedent for his newly discovered argument that 
the jury must find a violation of the terms of se rvice to convict on the wire fraud counts. Instead, 
he cites Carpenter and Chestman, but as noted, both of those ca ses held that a contractual 


--- PAGE 3 ---

  Pa ge 3 
 
 
relationship is not required to find a defendant guilty on a misappropriation theory. He also cites a 
civil case dealing with the enforceability of an arbi tration clause in a website’s terms of service, 
which simply has nothing to do with  the legal standard applicable  to the crime of wire fraud 
charged here. ( See Deft. Redline at 11 (citing Carpenter, Chestman, and Meyer v. Uber Techs. , 
868 F.3d 66, 75 (2d Cir. 2017))).  
 
To be clear, the Government does not disagree that the terms of service are a relevant piece 
of evidence for the jury to consider, along with the other evidence in th e case, in determining 
whether the defendant committed fraud. But, as noted above, the law is clear that it is the 
defendant’s overall course of conduct with respect to his customers that the jury should consider, 
and that he can be convicted of  fraud on his customers even if there were disclaimers or other 
language in the terms of service that purportedly covered his conduct.
1 See Weaver, 860 F.3d at 
97  (noting that “although the contractual disclaimers were relevant to the jury’s determination of 
Weaver’s guilt, they did not render extra-contract misrepresentations immaterial as a matter of 
law”). Accordingly, the Government has proposed an instruction regarding contractual disclaimers 
that accords with the Second Circuit’s holding in Weaver. (Dkt. 326 at 3). 
 
The defendant’s revised proposed instruction is additionally wrong a nd confusing in its 
characterization of the property inte rest at issue in this case. ( See Deft. Redline at 15 (proposing 
to instruct the jury that “the Government must have proven beyond a reasonable doubt that under 
English law the Terms of Service created a property interest”)). The Indictment alleges, and the 
facts at trial have proven, that FTX customers entrusted the defendant with their deposits and that 
he misappropriated those deposits. (Dkt. 202 ¶ 17). This theory is fully in line with Carpenter, 
Chestman, and other misappropriation cases, as explained in the Government’s request to charge. 
(Dkt. 214 at 8-9). Indeed, the defendant’s prop osal appears to confus e the property element—
unquestionably satisfied by the mone y and cryptocurrency that was th e object of the defendant’s 
scheme—with the scheme to defra ud element, as to which the question is whether the defendant 
misappropriated that money or property or obtained it through misrepresentations. The customers 
had a property interest in the money and cryptocurrency they deposited with FTX, and there is no 
additional need to ground their prop erty interest in a contractual right found in the FTX terms of 
service, as the defendant’s new proposed instruction seeks to do. 
 
The defendant’s proposed instruction goes even  further astray in inviting the jury to 
speculate about the application of English law to these questions, without even providing an 
instruction as to what English law says about them. As the Government has repeatedly explained, 
it would be improper to instruct the jury regarding English law, as this case is governed by the 
federal wire fraud statute and is not a case allegi ng breach of contract. But even if the defendant 
wanted such an instruction, he has not proposed one. Instead, he proposes an instruction that refers 
to English law without even attempting to identi fy what the applicable English legal standard 
 
1 The evidence introduced at  trial also rebuts the defendant’s factual claims about the terms of 
service, as multiple witnesses have testified that the provisions cite d in the defense opening 
statement did not explain the defendant’s use of customer funds. (See, e.g., Tr. 1468 (Nishad Singh 
testimony that the missing customer money was not explained by FTX’s spot margin system); Tr. 
1962 (Can Sun testimony that the “theoretical argument” that th e margin system explained the 
missing funds was “not supported by the facts”)). 


--- PAGE 4 ---

  Pa ge 4 
 
 
would be. That would leave the ju ry with no guidance whatsoever as to how to resolve this case, 
which suggests that the defendant’s real goal is to confuse the jury. The Court should reject the 
defendant’s proposed instruction an d provide the standard legal inst ructions used in the past by 
this Court and others in misappropriation cases, as proposed in the Government’s request to 
charge. 
 
Defense Request No. 6: The Defendant’s Revi sed Proposed Jury Instruction on Lender Fraud 
Misstates the Facts Alleged in the Indictment 
 
The defendant has also added new language to his proposed request on Count Three of the 
Indictment that misstates the nature of the alleged fraud on lenders and attempts to reduce the 
alleged lender fraud to being derivative of the alleged customer fraud. Specifically, the defendant’s 
new instruction inaccurately states that “the cl aim of lender fraud is base d on failure to disclose 
the improper borrowing by Alamed a,” and that the jury “must acquit” if it finds that the 
Government has not proven that Alameda’s bo rrowing from FTX was “improper.” That is 
incorrect. Count Three charges the defendant with “providing false and misleading information to 
those lenders regarding Alameda’s financia l condition.” (Dkt. 202 ¶ 22). If the defendant 
concealed Alameda’s borrowing from FTX from lenders, that would be false and misleading, and 
would give lenders an inaccurate view of Alameda’s financial condition, regardless of whether the 
borrowing from FTX was “improper.” Nor are the a llegations in the Indict ment limited to that 
particular provision of false and misleading information regarding Alameda’s financial condition; 
rather, as the evidence at trial has shown, there were multiple additional ways in which the 
defendant conspired to mislead lenders, includi ng by providing them with financial information 
that inaccurately characterized sh ort-term liabilities as long-ter m liabilities, that understated 
Alameda’s overall liabilities, a nd that omitted Alameda’s large lo ans to the defendant and other 
insiders. The jury could convict based on those misrepresentations and omissions without even 
considering the concealment and misrepresentation of Alameda’s borrowing from FTX. Thus, the 
defendant’s attempt to conflate Count Three with Count One is incorrect, and the Court should not 
include the defendant’s newly requested language.  
 
Next, the defendant’s proposed instruction in jects additional confus ion by proposing to 
instruct the jury that it “must acquit” the defendan t if it finds that he “believed that the financial 
statements provided to the lenders was consistent with the balance sheet required by the lenders.” 
(Deft. Redline at 20). That is wrong for three reasons. First, the defendant’s proposed instruction 
is ambiguous at best, and mislead ing at worst. For instance, if  Alameda’s lenders requested a 
balance sheet that showed that Alameda was financially healthy, and the defendant provided them 
with a balance sheet that falsely indicated Alamed a’s financial health, this would be “consistent” 
with what the lenders required, but obviously fra udulent. That would be a basis to convict, not 
acquit. Second, only one lender witne ss testified at this trial, a nd the defense has generally not 
adduced evidence about what balance sheet Alamed a’s lenders “required.”  Third, to the extent 
that the defense is simply requesting a good faith instruction about what the defendant believed, 
the Government submits that the Court should provide a general in struction that good faith is a 
defense, rather than an instruct ion that attempts to characterize the facts of this case one way or 
another. The Government’s request to charge includes such a good faith instruction. (Dkt. 214 at 
13). 
 


--- PAGE 5 ---

  Pa ge 5 
 
 
Defense Request No. 9: The Defendant’s Proposed Addition to His Instruction on Securities Fraud 
Is Unsupported by the Record 
 
The defendant’s revised request to charge proposes a new sentence to the instruction on 
securities fraud, which states that the materiality  of a misrepresentation should not be evaluated 
by reference to the “idiosyncratic views of an indi vidual investor.” (Deft. Redline at 29-30). The 
defendant draws this language from United States v. Litvak , 889 F.3d 56, 69 (2d Cir. 2018), but 
there is nothing in the re cord in this case that would support the inclusion of such an instruction 
here. There has been no evidence presented to sugge st that the views of the investors who have 
testified were “idiosyncratic,” and presenting such an instruction without evidentiary support risks 
jury confusion. The Government’s request to ch arge accurately informs the jury that it must 
evaluate materiality from the point of view of a reasonable investor, and nothing further is required. 
(Dkt. 214 at 35). 
 
Defense Request No. 10: The Defendant’s Revi sed Proposed Jury Instruction on Commodities 
Fraud Is Legally Erroneous and Confusing 
 
The defendant has taken his initial proposed instruction for the conspiracy to commit 
commodities fraud offense in violation of the Commodities Exchange Act (“CEA”) and its 
implementing regulation Rule 180.1, which included irrelevant and confusing language about the 
“in connection with” element of that crime, and revised the instruction to include legally erroneous 
and confusing statements about both the “in connection with” element and the territorial 
applicability of the offense.  The Court should reject his instruction entirely.  
 
A. “In Connection With” Instruction 
 
The defendant’s request to charge asks for an instruction that: 
 
the phrase “in connection with” is not limitless and does not convert 
every instance of alleged fraudulent conduct that happens to involve 
commodities into a violation of the federal commodities fraud laws. 
For purposes of Count Six, the Government must prove beyond a 
reasonable doubt a fraud that is  “integral”—and not merely 
incidental—to a purchase or sale of  a commodity, or integral to a 
swap. (Deft. Redline at 36).  
 
While the Government agrees that the jury should be instructed on the “in connection with” 
requirement, the defendant’s pr oposed instruction would impr operly constrain the jury’s 
understanding of this language. The defendant’s propos al is not found in the statute itself or its 
implementing regulation. 7 U.S.C. § 9(1); 17 C.F.R. § 180.1, but rather seeks to elaborate on dicta 
in the Supreme Court’s decision in S.E.C. v. Zandford , 535 U.S. 813 (2002), and the  Second 
Circuit’s decision in Dabit v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. , 395 F.3d 25 (2d Cir. 
2005), vacated, 547 U.S. 71 (2006), in a way that undermine the Supreme Court’s holding. Indeed, 
the Supreme Court has held that Section 10(b) of the parallel Securities Exchange Act “should be 
construed not technically and restrictively, but fl exibly to effectuate its remedial purposes.” 
Zandford, 535 U.S. at 819. Notably, the defendant cites no jury charge that instructed the jury with 


--- PAGE 6 ---

  Pa ge 6 
 
 
the additional language sought by the defendant. The Government’s proposal (Dkt. 214 at 46) 
provides a more accurate de scription of the law, and is consiste nt with precedent in this District, 
see United States v. Milton, No. 21 Cr. 478 (ER) (S.D.N.Y. Sept. 12, 2022); Blaszczak, No. 17 Cr. 
357 (LAK) (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 27, 2018); United States v. Tuzman, No. 15 Cr. 536 (PGG) (S.D.N.Y 
Dec. 22, 2017).2 
 
On top of this, the defendant’s proposed in struction goes on to include inaccurate or 
confusing statements of the law. First, he proposes to instruct th e jury that “the ‘in connection 
with’ requirement would not be satisfied if the alleged misappropriation was complete before any 
actual or contemplated commodities transaction took place.” (Deft. Redline 36). Next, he requests 
that the Court charge the jury that the “in connection with” element is not met if he merely 
“embezzle[d] assets, including commodities, from a client’s account, even if that client account is 
used to trade commodities,” and that the “in co nnection requirement” woul d not be satisfied by 
evidence that a defendant misappropriated a customer’s funds and used them to trade commodities. 
(Deft. Redline at 36-37).   
 
Those proposed instructions fa il to account for the fact that the Indictment charges the 
defendant with defrauding cu stomers who were “trading or intending to trade  cryptocurrencies, 
futures, options, swaps, and derivatives.” (Dkt. 202 ¶ 32 (emphasis added)). The defendant can in 
fact be properly convicted for making false statements to induce customers to send money to FTX 
to try to purchase cryptocurrency, even if he misappropriated or embezzled their funds before the 
contemplated purchases took place. Jing v. Sun , No. 21 Civ. 2350 (GRB) (AYS), 2022 WL 
1505950, at *19 (E.D.N.Y. Jan. 4, 2022) (holding “in connection with” element met when 
defendant’s statements “were made to entice Plaintiffs to send money . . . for the intended purchase 
of Bitcoin”).  
 
In fact, multiple cases have recognized that it is commoditi es fraud to embezzle funds 
which were intended to be used to purchase commodities.  See, e.g., In re J.P. Jeanneret Assocs., 
Inc., 769 F. Supp. 2d 340, 363 (S.D.N.Y. 2011) (“in connection with” requirement “can be satisfied 
. . . where the plaintiffs part with money intending that it be invested in securities, only to have the 
person to whom that money is entrusted steal it”); CFTC v. McDonnell, 332 F. Supp. 3d 641, 719 
(E.D.N.Y. 2018) (“Misappropriation of customer funds constitutes fraud that violates Section 
6(c)(1) of the Act and Regulation 180.1(a).”). That is particularly true where, as here, the evidence 
demonstrates that some of the funds the defendant misappropriated were themselves commodities. 
CFTC v. Reynolds, No. 19 Civ. 05631 (MKV), 2021 WL 796683, at  *2 (S.D.N.Y. Mar. 2, 2021) 
(entering default judgment where inter alia defendants were charged w ith “misappropriating the 
Bitcoin that was entrusted to them”); ( see also, e.g., Tr. 1715:12-13 (Peter Easton testimony that 
“Alameda Research used custom er crypto funds to pay for the expenditures”)). Similarly, the 
defendant’s assertion that the “in connection” element is not met by misappropriating customer’s 
funds and using them to tr ade commodities is wrong.  Zandford, 535 U.S. at 822 (element met 
when “scheme to defraud and the sale of securities coincide”); S.E.C. v. Dorozhko, 574 F.3d 42, 
 
2  Indeed, in Tuzman, Judge Gardephe’s instruction made precisely the opposite point of that made 
in the defendant’s request: “Fraudulent conduct may be ‘in connection with’ the purchase or sale 
of securities if you find that th e alleged conduct ‘touched upon’ a s ecurities transaction.” No. 15 
Cr. 536 (PGG), Dkt. 706 at Tr. 7206.  


--- PAGE 7 ---

  Pa ge 7 
 
 
46 (2d Cir. 2009) (“close temporal  proximity” of d eception to trading of securities and 
“cohesiveness of the scheme” suggest that the deception “was part  of a single scheme to commit 
securities fraud.”); (see also Tr. 654, 652 (Caroline Ellison test imony that the defendant told her 
“that FTX [customer funds] would be a good source of capital” for Alameda Research “[i]n order 
to do more trades or just have the ability to do whatever valuable things came up”)).  
 
B. Extraterritoriality Instruction 
 
Though the Government did not initially provide an instruction regard ing this issue, the 
Government has no objection to an instruction as follows:  
 
Additionally, as to Count Six, the Government must also prove a 
sufficient relationship between the offense and the United States.  
The Government may satisfy this burden in two ways. 
 
One way the Government may prove a sufficient connection to the 
United States is by showing that some conduct relevant to the 
offense charged in Count Six occurred in the United States.  It is not 
necessary that all or most of the conduct rele vant to those crimes 
happened in the United States, a lthough the conduct in the United 
States must be more than incidental to the scheme.  The Government 
also does not have to prove that the defendant was ever in the United 
States, just that conduct relevant to the offenses occurred in the 
country. 
 
A second way the Government may prove a sufficient connection to 
the United States is by showing that some conduct relating to swaps 
had a direct and significant effect on, or connection with, commerce 
in the United States. Here, there is no need for any conduct to have 
occurred in the United States. All the Government needs to prove is 
that the offense involved conduc t that had an effect on, or 
connection with, commerce in the United States, and that the effect 
or connection was direct and significant. In assessing this issue, you 
may also consider whether conduct  in furtherance of the crime 
charged in Count Six caused trading, money transfers, and 
communications to occur in the United States, or otherwise affected 
commerce in the country. In proving  the existence of a connection 
to the United States, it is not necessary to prove both conduct in, and 
an effect on, the United States.  Either will be sufficient to satisfy 
the Government’s burden. 
 
This instruction is consistent with 7 U.S.C. § 2(i), the statutory pr ovision pertaining to 
swaps, and Rule 180.1, the CFTC’s rule pertaining to commodities. As the Court held in denying 
the defendant’s motion to dismiss, the “focus of the CEA is rooting out manipulation and ensuring 
market integrity.” United States v. Bankman-Fried, No. 22 Cr. 673 (LAK), 2023 WL 4194773, at 
*11 (S.D.N.Y. June 27, 2023) (citations omitted). The Court properly held there that the Indictment 


--- PAGE 8 ---

  Pa ge 8 
 
 
adequately alleged a domestic application of th e statute because the fraud was committed “in the 
United States,” was “directed at U.S. customers,” and was committed through “a U.S.-based social 
media platform.” Id.; see also In re Platinum & Palladium Antitrust Litig. , 61 F.4th 242, 267 (2d 
Cir. 2023) (proper domestic applic ation of the statute where “pla intiffs also allege domestic 
conduct by the defendants that violated the CEA”).  
 
  Indeed, the Government’s evidence has shown an abundance of domestic conduct by the 
defendant in connection with the sale of cryptocurrencies. Among other things, the defendant made 
false statements to induce customers to use FT X while in the United States and through Twitter 
(Tr. 1682), he did so to induce customers including those in the United States like BlockFi to trade 
cryptocurrencies on FTX (Tr. 1223-24), he diverted customer cryptocurrency to repay U.S.-based 
lenders including BlockFi (Tr. 1770), he diverted customer fiat currency which had been intended 
to purchase cryptocurrency from U.S.-based bank accounts (Tr. 657), and he used some of that 
misappropriated money to pay for stock in a U.S. company (Tr. 1740).  
 
By contrast, the defendant’s proposed instruc tion misstates the applicable legal standard. 
His instruction erroneously focuses on whet her fraudulent or manipulative conduct was 
“predominantly foreign,” ignoring the Second Ci rcuit’s holding that “substantial domestic 
contacts” suffice for a domestic applicati on of the parallel Secu rities Exchange Act. Giunta v. 
Dingman, 893 F.3d 73, 82-83 (2d Cir. 2018). The defendant also improperly seeks to instruct the 
jury that the Government must m eet the standard described in 7 U.S.C. § 2(i) “beyond a shadow 
of a doubt.” That is not the Government’s burden. E.g. Thornburg v. Mullin, 422 F.3d 1113, 1130 
(10th Cir. 2005) (prosecutor’s “state[ment] [to the jury] that ‘beyond a reasonable  doubt’ does not 
mean beyond ‘a shadow of a doubt or all doubt’ was not a constitutional violation” because it was 
not misleading); United States v. Balogun , 463 F. App’x 476, 481 (6th  Cir. 2012) (affirming 
conviction where court instructed jury that “[p]roof beyond a reasonable doubt does not mean . . . 
beyond a shadow of a doubt, which is not a phrase that we use in court”).  
 
Defense Request No. 15: The Defendant’s Pro posed Jury Instruction on Cooperating Witness 
Testimony Omits Important Legal Context 
 
The Government objects to the defendan t’s proposed instruction regarding  
“cooperating witness testimony” in that it omits a key section from United States v. Amanat, No. 
15 Cr. 536 (PGG) (S.D.N.Y. Dec. 22, 2017), the case the defendant cites for support.  Specifically, 
the defendant’s proposed instruction omits the following instruction from Amanat: 
 
You should be aware that it is not unusual for the government to rely 
on the testimony of witnesses who admit to participating in criminal 
activity. The government must take its witnesses as it finds them, 
and frequently the government must use such testimony in criminal 
prosecutions because otherwise it would be difficult or impossible 
to detect and prosecute wrongdoers. For this reason, the law allows 
the use of cooperating witness testimony, and you may consider the 
testimony of these witnesses in determining whether the government 
has met its burden of proving [t he defendant’s] guilt beyond a 
reasonable doubt. 


--- PAGE 9 ---

  Pa ge 9 
 
 
 
Without this language, the instruction would be unbalanced  and improperly advance defense 
advocacy. By contrast, the Government’s proposed  cooperating witness instruction, Request No. 
53, while advising caution in evaluating cooperator testimony, also appropriately protects against 
the potential of unfair and imprope r inferences being drawn by the fact of the Government’s use 
of the testimony of cooperating witnesses.   
 
Defense Request No. 17: The Defendant’s Proposed Jury Instruction on Other Acts Evidence Is 
Inaccurate 
 
The Government objects to the defendant’s pr oposed inclusion of “on earlier occasions” 
when describing the time period of the “other acts.” Such a reference is vague and unsupported by 
the record, which establishes that  misconduct applicable to this instruction, namely bribery and 
conspiring to make unlawful campaign contributions, occurred during the time period of the 
Indictment from at least in or about 2019, up to and including in or abou t November 2022. (Tr. 
832-833 (describing timing of bribe payments  to unfreeze Alameda trading accounts as 
“November 2021”), Tr. 1421-1422 (describing th e timing of political donations funded by 
Alameda and routed through Nishad Singh as occurring into th e fall of 2022).) The Government 
also objects to the defendant’s proposed referen ce to “evidence of prior incarceration” because 
there is no evidence in the record to support such statement.   
 
Although the parties’ requests are otherwise substantially similar (compare Gov’t Request 
No. 51 (Dkt. 214 at 76) with Deft. Redline Request No. 17 (Dkt. 327-1 at 51)), the Government’s 
proposed jury instruction appropriately iden tifies the specific mis conduct that should be 
considered as “Other Acts” evidence and identif ies the specific purpose for which such evidence 
may be considered. These narrowly tailored instructions are warranted to minimize any risk of 
confusion regarding the “Other Acts” evidence that is applicable and the purpose for which it can 
be considered. Based on the Court’s prior ruli ngs and the evidence introduced at trial, the 
Government proposes the following additions to insert in the blank spaces in Request No. 51: 
 
Now, you also heard evidence th at the defendant engaged in 
misconduct that is not charged in this Indictment, including bribery 
and conspiring to make unlawful campaign contributions. He is not 
on trial for committing those acts. Accordingly, you may not 
consider the evidence of other uncharged bad acts as a substitute for 
proof that he committed the crimes  with which he is charged here. 
Nor may you consider that evidence as proof that he has a criminal 
personality or bad character. The evidence was admitted for limited 
purposes, and you may consider it for those purposes alone. 
 
More specifically, you may consider the evidence you have heard 
regarding bribery for its relevance to the defendant’s relationship of 
trust and confidence between the defendant and Ms. Ellison, as well 
as its relevance to his motive fo r committing the charged crimes.  
You may consider the evidence you have heard regarding conspiring 
to make unlawful campaign contributions as relevant to the 


--- PAGE 10 ---

  Pa ge 10 
 
 
defendant’s relationship of trus t with Nishad Singh and Ryan 
Salame. You may also consider the evidence of campaign 
contributions as direct evidence of  the charged wire fraud scheme 
on FTX customers, as it pertains  to allegations about how the 
defendant spent allegedly misapprop riated customer funds, and as 
direct evidence of the charged money laundering conspiracy, as it 
pertains to the allegation that the defendant engaged in financial 
transactions that were allegedl y designed to conceal the nature, 
location, source, ownership, or control of criminal proceeds.   
 
Defense Request No. 23: The Defe ndant’s Proposed Jury Instru ction on Missing Witnesses Is 
Unsupported by the Trial Record 
 
A missing witness charge permitting the jury to  infer that the test imony of an unproduced 
witness would have favored one party is appropr iate only “if production of the witness is 
‘peculiarly within [the] power’ of the other party.” United States v. Rabbani, 382 F. App’x 31, 41 
(2d Cir. 2010) (quoting United States v. Nichols, 912 F.2d 598, 601 (2d Cir.1990)).  Here, there is 
no basis in the record to support the defendant’s  proposed “Missing Witne ss” instruction. (Deft. 
Redline at 64). The Government’s proposed in struction, Request No . 59 (Dkt. 214 at 86), 
appropriately addresses uncalled witnesses that were equally available to both sides.   
 
Defense Request No. 24: The Defendant’s Propos ed Jury Instruction on the Involvement of 
Counsel Creates a Risk of Jury Confusion 
 
The Government objects to the defendant’s proposed request regarding the involvement of 
counsel. The proposed instruction im properly instructs the jury that  it may consider “whether a 
lawyer’s presence, involvement, or advice known to Mr. Bankman-F ried gave him comfort that 
he was acting properly” when determining whether the defendant “acted in good faith.”  
 
First, even if there were a factual basis to draw an inference about the defendant’s reaction 
to the presence or involvement of  counsel, such an inst ruction would still be nothing more than 
defense argument, and unsurprisingl y was not  given in the two jury charges that the defendant 
cites in support.  See United States v. Milton , No. 21 Cr. 478 (ER) (S.D.N.Y. Sept. 12, 2022); 
United States v. Shea, No. 20 Cr. 412 (AT) (S.D.N.Y. May 23, 2022 and October 24, 2022).  
 
Second, there is insufficient evidence in the record for an instruction regarding a lawyer’s 
advice, because the evidence is insufficient to support that the defendant  “‘honestly and in good 
faith sought the advice of counsel,’  ‘fully and honestly laid all th e facts before his counsel,’ and 
‘in good faith and honestly followed counsel’s advice.’” United States v. Scully, 877 F.3d 464, 476 
(2d Cir. 2017). To the contrary, FTX’s general counsel, Can Sun, testified that at the time he 
approved the loan structure for cer tain founder loans, he “had no idea that customer funds were 
being used.” (Tr. 1948). Moreover,  Sun testified that when he fi rst learned of the FTX customer 
deposit shortfall in November 2022, he advised the defendant that “there was no legal justification 
for the funds being missing and taken by Alameda. ” (Tr. 1960).  And Sun provided limited to no 
testimony regarding legal advice  concerning FTX auto-deletion policies. (Tr. 1991-93). As a 
result, the defendant’s reliance on United States v. Tagliaferri¸  No. 13 Cr. 115 (RA) (S.D.N.Y. 


--- PAGE 11 ---

Page 11 
June 24, 2014), Trial Tr. at 84-85, for such an instruction is misplaced, and the instructions should 
not be given. 
Respectfully submitted, 
DAMIAN WILLIAMS 
United States Attorney for the 
Southern District of New York 
B y :  
  Danielle R. Sassoon 
Nicolas Roos 
Danielle Kudla 
Samuel Raymond 
Thane Rehn 
Assistant United States Attorneys 
(212) 637-2354
Cc: Counsel of Record (via ECF) 
/s Thane Rehn