

--- PAGE 1 ---

EXHIBIT K 
  
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-40   Filed 02/27/24   Page 1 of 4


--- PAGE 2 ---

 
 
New York is lonely. 
 
Sometimes it hits me how much the city, and some people in it, have given me.  The trust, and 
responsibility, and respect, and forgiveness, and luck.  And I feel an overwhelm sadness.  
Somewhere that ingratitude and loneliness intersect. 
 
Ingratitude because I know that as much as people have given me, I’ll never really be able to 
say ‘thank you’, not really.  Not sincerely.  To truly be thankful you have to have felt it in your 
heart, in your stomach, in your head--the rush of pleasure, of kinship, of gratitude.  And I don’t 
feel those things.  When my friends throw me a surprise party I’m stuck by how much I mean to 
them and how much they’re doing to show it.  When my bosses respect my opinion and 
decisions, and compliment me I remember how lucky I am, how much they invested in me to get 
me to where I am.  When she says she loves me--I remember how unlovable I am, and how she 
doesn’t seem to care about that.  But I don’t feel anything, or at least anything good.  I don’t feel 
pleasure, or love, or pride, or devotion.  I feel the awkwardness of the moment enclosing on me.  
The pressure to react appropriately, to show that I love them back.  And I don’t, because I can’t.  
And so instead I feel an intense guilt--that they’ve been so good to me, and that I don’t even 
appreciate it.  The feeling when the girl of your dreams proposes, and now that you have her 
she doesn’t make you happy anymore. 
 
And I am lonely, because as much as people care about my work and my friendship and my 
support and my ideas….   No one seems to care about me.  About what’s going on inside me.  
People shy away from it.  From the ugliness and messiness and regret and guilt and anxiety 
and the memories that haunt me. 
 
I don’t feel pleasure.  I don’t feel happiness.  Somehow myreward system never clicked.  My 
highest hights, my proudest moments, come and pass and I feel nothing but the aching hole in 
my brain where happiness should be.  And my purest moments, the moments when I am finally 
free--the rush of cool air when a roller coaster takes over, the intense focusing when I move 
inside of her, the high when I’m playing badminton and finally break out of my overweight body--
their trademark isn’t a rush of ecstasy.  Their trademark is nothingness, a brief relief from 
everything else in my life.  I feel clear, and I feel free. I feel nothing, and it’s the best thing I’ve 
ever felt. 
 
But when I say that--when I describe the calmness of a rushing wind just cool enough to 
massage my head into blankness--people don’t get it.  “I guess that’s just his kink”, they think to 
themselves.  Or maybe “why is he avoiding talking about what he really likes?” 
 
And no one is curious.  No one cares, not really, about the self I see.  They care about the Sam 
they see, and what he means to them.  And they don’t seem to understand who that Sam is--a 
product of thoughts that I decide people should hear.  My real-life twitter account. 
 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-40   Filed 02/27/24   Page 2 of 4


--- PAGE 3 ---

I guess it’s something about the city.  It’s be true everywhere, to some extent, but never as 
much as here.  Somehow the professionalism of our jobs, the insularity of having a boyfriend or 
girlfriend, the career penis contests with friends and coworkers, the anchoring on who you 
chose to be, the properness that’s expected of an adult, the comfort of having a stable life--
somehow all of that shit ties us down and prevents us from showing any vulnerability.  And if 
you’re not able to show weakness, you also can’t really empathize with it in others. 
 
I enjoy my coworkers but they show no interest in seeing who I really am, in hearing the 
thoughts I hold back.  The more honest I try to make our friendships the more they fade away. 
 
We brace for the dangers of the jungle, and in doing so we become the concrete we walk on.  
Somehow the city infects us all. 
 
The few times that people open themselves up and look into me with open eyes mean the world 
to me.  The drunken talk with  after the previous winter party.  The dinner where  
talks about her frustrations.  The moments when  came to terms with my depression, 
and the few days when  cared about me.  The night  opened up to me about her 
relationship in the freezing cold of Washington square park.  The evening  and I finally 
talked about work.  
 
But I remember college.  I remember  maybe the only person who’s ever accepted me for 
who I am.   who saw my depression clearly (before that whole shitshow ended our 
friendship).   that night on the inflatable mattress in DC.  And -the first and last time 
I’ve had a best friend. 
 
And I think of my brief nights in Oxford, and I remember what it means to be around good 
people.  I respect my friends and colleagues here, and think that by and large they do good, and 
that by and large they care about doing good.  But being good isn’t what makes them who they 
are, it’s just sometimes a byproduct.  And I remember how I lit up when talking to  
. 
 
And I remember what I’ve lost. 
 
Is it the city?  Is it my friends, my coworkers? 
 
Or is it the common factor between my relationships with my coworkers, bosses, friends, 
girlfriends, flings, friends of friends, dates, board game friends, family?  Is it me? 
 
 
 
Same city, yeah, we can't break up 
Nice mask on, wear the same one 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-40   Filed 02/27/24   Page 3 of 4


--- PAGE 4 ---

The greatest trick that the devil ever pulled 
Was convincing women that they looked 
Better in their makeup 
I wear war paint, fight to the casket 
Too tired to apologize on this mattress 
Emotional detachment, what's the matter? 
She's learning that she never should have 
Dated a rapper 
I don't blame her, my mind is gone 
I'm at dinner, checking phone calls 
Texts & blogs 
I don't hear a word, I know nothing at all 
Just concerned about the world 
Memorizing these songs 
Goes on and on 
Don't wanna break you 
But I'm leading you on 
On, on, on, on 
And now it's gone 
 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-40   Filed 02/27/24   Page 4 of 4