

--- PAGE 1 ---

[Type text] 
 
e 
 
 
										
  October 13, 2023 
 
 
By ECF 
 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007  
 
  R e :  United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan:  
 
The Government respectfully su bmits this letter in oppositio n to the defendant’s October 
12, 2023 motion in limine , Dkt. No. 321. The defendant’s motion should be denied. First, the 
defendant makes a number of incorrect argume nts about the law regard ing the Government’s 
theories of wire fraud alleged in the Indict ment, and the defendant’s attempts to seek 
reconsideration of the Court’s prior rulings on these issues should be rejected. Second, to the extent 
that the defendant seeks to cros s-examine witnesses about their understanding of representations 
made by the defendant and his agents, including re presentations in the FTX Terms of Service, at 
least where the witness saw those representation s and there is therefor e some foundation for 
relevant testimony, the Government  does not generally obje ct to this topic of cross-examination, 
although it may object to the form or foundation for certain questions. Third, the Government 
should be permitted to offer testimony from w itnesses regarding thei r understanding of and 
reaction to representations ma de by the defendant and his agents, which is not lay opinion 
testimony.  
 
I. The Defendant’s Arguments About the Applicable Law for the Counts Alleging 
Wire Fraud on Customers Are Incorrect 
 
As an initial matter, the defendant is simp ly wrong that Counts One and Three of the 
Indictment rest solely on a misappropriation theory.  As the Government has explained, repeatedly, 
the evidence establishes that the defendant committed fraud against FTX customers and investors 
through both misappropriating their funds and by making material misrepresentations and 
omissions. Dkt. No. 302 at 2, 3 (citing Spira v. Nick , 876 F. Supp. 553, 558 (S.D.N.Y. 1995)).
1 
There is thus no basis to preclude or limit an y evidence about FTX’s customers’ reasonable 
 
1 Indeed, the evidence has already establis hed such material misrepresentations. E.g. GXs 863, 
866; Tr. 87:15–89:25 (defendant’s false statemen ts on Twitter about FTX’s assets convinced 
former FTX customer Marc-Antoine Julliard not to withdraw funds on November 6 or 7, 2022).  
 
 
The Silvio J. Mollo Building 
              O n e  S a i n t  A n d r e w ’ s  P l a z a  
              New York, New York 10007  
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District o
f New York 


--- PAGE 2 ---

  Pa ge 2 
 
 
interpretations of statements made by the defend ant and his agents, insofar as that evidence is 
relevant to show that the statements had a “natur al tendency to influence, or [were] capable of 
influencing,” the customers’ decisions with respect to their FTX deposits. Neder v. United States, 
527 U.S. 1, 16 (1999); see also United States v. Gramins, 939 F.3d 429, 444-45 (2d Cir. 2019).   
 
With respect to the Government’s theory that the defendant a nd his co-conspirators 
misappropriated FTX’s customers’ funds, the defendant suggests that to establish 
misappropriation, the Government must establish a “violation of the terms of a contract,” here the 
FTX Terms of Service.  Dkt. No. 321 at 3. That is incorrect: misappropriation occurs when a party 
breaches a “fiduciary duty or similar relationship of trust and confidence,” which includes not just 
a “trustee and trust beneficiary,” but also several other relationships such as when a beneficiary 
“entrust[s] the fiduciary w ith custody over property.” United States v. Chestman , 947 F.2d 551, 
569 (2d Cir. 1991).  
 
Such relationships are not defined so lely through a “written contract.” E.g. Carpenter v. 
United States, 484 U.S. 19, 27 (1987) (“even in the absence of a written contract, an employee has 
a fiduciary obligation to protect confidential information obtained duri ng the course of his 
employment.” (citations omitted)); United States v. Mahaffy, 693 F.3d 113, 127 (2d Cir. 2012) (in 
a case alleging misappropriation of company inform ation, considerations include whether a firm 
regarded “information … as confidential and treated it as such”). The Government’s evidence has 
already shown that the defendant authorized statements, beyond the Terms of Service, that indicate 
his own acknowledgement that FTX had such a relationship of trust with its customers. E.g. GX 
900 (ad featuring Tom Brady and Gisele Bundchen e nding with a slide that FTX was “The most 
trusted way to buy & sell” various digital assets); GX 850 (defendant’s Tweet that “backstopping 
customer assets” was “primary”). There will be additional evidence of such statements introduced 
over the course of the trial. That means that customers relying on such statements were in no way 
doing so “unilaterally.” Chestman, 947 F.2d at 567. Additionally, testimony from the defendant’s 
own employees regarding what they understood about the company’s tr eatment of customer 
deposits is highly relevant to the nature of the relationship between FTX and its customers.  
 
There is thus no basis to exclude evidence  or provide any limit ing instruction about 
evidence of customers’ beliefs regarding thei r understanding and interpretation of how their 
deposits would be handled by FTX, in the context of the statements which the defendant authorized 
about how FTX would treat their assets. Nor is there any basis to treat the Terms of Service as the 
only relevant evidence of the nature of the rela tionship of trust between FTX and its customers. 
Indeed, the Second Circuit recently reversed a district court’s granting of a Rule 29 motion in a 
wire fraud case where the defendants had argued that their misappropriation of funds received 
pursuant to a contract was not crim inal if they had fulfilled the li teral terms of their “contractual 
bargain.” 
United States v. Jabar, 19 F.4th 66, 79 (2d Cir. 2021). The Second Circuit held that the 
district court should not have ove rturned the jury’s verdict, wh ich took into account the overall 
pattern of the “defendants’ fraudulent acts with respect to the rest of the bargain.” Id.  
 
Certainly, a defendant is entitled to present a defense, but only if it has a foundation in the 
evidence, see United States v. Kwong, 69 F.3d 663, 667-68 (2d Cir. 1995), and as long as it does 
not fail as a matter of law, see United States v. Bakhtiari , 913 F.2d 1053, 1057 (2d Cir. 1990).  
While the Government does not object to the de fendant’s offering disclaimers in the Terms of 


--- PAGE 3 ---

  Pa ge 3 
 
 
Service in an effort to argue that a relationshi p of trust between FTX and its customers did not 
exist, the defense should not be permitted to suggest or argue that such disclaimers defeat the 
Government’s misappropr iation theory as a matter of law or  render the defendant’s false and 
misleading statements about how FTX woul d treat customer assets immaterial.  United States v. 
Weaver, 860 F.3d 90, 95 (2d Cir. 2017) (“a disclaimer of reliance on certain representations” does 
not “mean that the oral representations were immaterial or without tendency to influence”).2 
 
Furthermore, as the Court previously held, there is no basis to allow the testimony of 
Lawrence Akka. Dkt. No. 287 at 2 (Akka’s proposed “testimony plainly is inadmissible under Rule 
702 as it invades the province of the Court to instruct the jury on the law”). Nothing in the 
defendant’s letter disturbs the Court’s conclusion: issues of law, including foreign law, are for the 
Court, not for the jury. Fed. R. Crim. P. 26.1.  
 
Finally, as the Court held in its prior Order,  the defendant’s request  for a proposed jury 
charge on foreign law
3 is not ripe, and if the defendant seeks such a charge the Government 
requests the opportunity to respond.  The evidence at trial does not  currently warrant any such 
instruction, as the Government’s misappropriation theory alleges fraud on the basis of the overall 
“relationship of trust and confidence” between the defendant and FTX customers, Chestman, 947 
F.2d at 569, and the Terms of Service, which have not even been introduced into evidence yet, are 
expected to be just one of many pieces of evidence regarding that relationship.  
 
II. The Government Does Not Object to Cross-Examination Regarding How Witnesses 
Understood Their Relationship With FTX 
 
The defendant argues that he has not been gr anted sufficient latitude to cross-examine 
witnesses about their understanding of how their deposits would be  treated. Dkt. No. 321 at 1-2. 
But the Government has not objected to his effo rts at cross-examination on these topics. The 
defense has asked, without objection, numerous questions to “flesh[] out” its theories. Consistent 
with the law, the Government has objected to the defense’s frequent questions that simply reiterate 
testimony from direct examination or that “go beyond the subject matter of the direct examination 
and matters affecting the witness’s credibility.” Fed. R. Evid. 611(b); United States v. James, 712 
F.3d 79, 103 (2d Cir. 2013) (“A dist rict court should afford wide latitude to a defendant in a 
criminal case to cross-examine government witnesse s, but it does not follow,  of course, that the 
Confrontation Clause prevents a trial judge from imposing any limits on defense counsel’s inquiry 
in cross-examining a prosecution witness.” (citation omitted)).  
 
The defendant next asserts th at he “should be permitted to  question the Government’s 
witnesses as to [FTX’s] Terms of Service.” Dk t. No. 321 at 3. Again, the Government has no 
objection to cross-examination of witnesses about whether they reviewed FTX’s Terms of Service, 
and has not objected when such questions have been addressed to witne sses who can provide 
relevant testimony. E.g. Tr. 96:18-24 (cross-examination of Marc-Antoine Julliard on whether he 
 
2  The Government has proposed an appropriate inst ruction to the jury regarding the limits of the 
relevance of such evidence. See Dkt. No. 214 at 35. 
3 Notably, the defendant cited no foreign law sour ces in his proposed request to charge.  Dkt. 
No. 215. 


--- PAGE 4 ---

  Pa ge 4 
 
 
had reviewed the Terms of Service), Tr. 1230 (c ross-examination of Zac Prince about whether 
BlockFi had reviewed the Terms of Service). And if Government witnesses refer to the Terms of 
Service as a factor in  their decision-making, cross-examin ation on the specifics of what the 
witnesses relied on is of course permissible.  
 
Finally, the defendant “anticipates asking witnesses who were customers and investors of 
FTX and lenders to Alameda questions designed  to elicit testimony a bout the factors they 
considered material.” Dkt. No. 321 at 4. Again, the Government does not generally object to cross-
examination of customers about their decision to deposit funds on FTX, or cross-examination of 
investors regarding the factors that  contributed to their decision to  invest in FTX. However, the 
Government may of course object to the form of certain questions, including questions that seek 
to embed legal conclusions by using the word “material.” See Tr. 292-96 (cross-examination of 
investor witness Matt Huang on decision to invest, largely without objection by the Government). 
As discussed in more detail below, direct and cross-examination on how investors understood the 
defendant’s representations is proper. What would be improper would be questions meant to 
suggest that investors were negligent or that  they should have done more diligence before 
investing.  
 
III. Investor Testimony Regarding Their Understanding of the Defendant’s 
Representations Is Proper 
 
The defendant asserts that portions of w itness Matt Huang’s test imony was inadmissible 
without him having been noticed and qualified as an expert, which he wa s not, and requests that 
the Government be precluding from eliciting s imilar testimony.  But Mr. Huang did not provide 
expert testimony; instead, he offered his understanding of the defendant’s representation that FTX 
was “the custodian for customer deposits,” Tr. 273:9-16, and how that representation was a factor 
in his decision to invest in FTX. Tr. 274:18-21, 282:18-22. That is testimony as to his expectations 
and understandings, which, as the Government argued in its September 30 letter, is admissible and 
is not expert testimony. The Second Circuit’s decision in Gramins is instructive.  There, the Second 
Circuit affirmed the admissibility of testimony about the “expectations of broker-dealer employees 
purporting to act in a ‘broker’ capacity.”  939 F.3d at 450. There was no suggestion that these 
witnesses, who testified about their expectations using “industry jargon,” id. at 449, could only do 
so if qualified as experts.  
 
As the Court stated during trial on October 13, testimony about witness expectations based 
on widely used terms in the relevant industry is not “the subject of scientific or technical” expertise. 
Tr. 1183:1-2. Indeed, testimony from market participan ts is essential for the jury to understand 
“whether a misrepresentation has been made,” wh ich “depends on the ‘ove rall message’ and the 
‘common understanding’ of the information conveyed.” CFTC v. McDonnell, 332 F. Supp. 3d 641, 
717-18 (E.D.N.Y. 2018). On cross-examination the defense has itself elicited testimony about the 
“understanding” of market par ticipants of certain terms. 
E.g. Tr. 1244:16-17 (stating during the 
cross-examination of Zac Prince, “I’m not holding you to a technical definition. I want to get your 
understanding.”). 
 
The defendant cites United States v. Litvak, 889 F.3d 56, 69 (2d Cir. 2018), which held that 
testimony from a market participant with an  “indisputably idiosyncratic and unreasonable 


--- PAGE 5 ---

  Pa ge 5 
 
 
viewpoint” was inadmissible. But the Second Circuit also  recognized that, in  the typical case, 
evidence of the “individual views of a counterparty trader may usually be relevant to the nature of 
the market involved and to the belie fs of a reasonable investor.” Id. That is exactly the nature of 
the testimony on these topics that  will be offered by th e Government, and the defense is free to 
cross-examine investor witnesses in an atte mpt to show that their views were somehow 
idiosyncratic or were not those of a reasonable investor. But the Court should deny the defendant’s 
motion seeking to preclude any testimony on these subj ects, and allow upcoming Government 
witnesses to testify about their interpretation of  his representations, bo th on direct and cross-
examination.  
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
DAMIAN WILLIAMS 
United States Attorney for the 
Southern District of New York 
 
 
 By:  /s Thane Rehn      
  Danielle R. Sassoon 
Nicolas Roos 
Danielle Kudla 
Samuel Raymond 
Thane Rehn 
Assistant United States Attorneys 
(212) 637-2354 
 
Cc: Counsel of Record (via ECF) 