

--- PAGE 1 ---

[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              October 7, 2024 
 
BY ECF 
 
Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Judge  
Daniel Patrick Moynihan  
United States Courthouse  
500 Pearl Street 
New York, NY 10007-1312 
 
Re:  United States v. Caroline Ellison, S2 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan: 
 
The Government respectfully submits this letter  regarding the restitut ion provision in the 
judgment entered in this case, which does not reflect the Court’s oral pronouncement at sentencing. 
Accordingly, the Government requests that the Court amend the judgment pursuant to Federal 
Rule of Criminal Procedure 35(a), which authorizes the Court to co rrect a sentence that resulted 
from “arithmetical, technical, or other clear error, ” or Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 36, 
which authorizes the Court to correct a “clerical error in a judgment.” See United States v. Jacques, 
6 F.4th 337, 341-42 (2d Cir. 2021) (discussing clerical errors as “minor, uncontroversial errors … 
of the sort that a clerk or amanuensis might commit”) (quotation marks omitted).  
 
As background, when the Court entered j udgment for co-defenda nt Samuel Bankman-
Fried, it entered the following order regarding restitution: “The Court declines to order restitution 
due to the complexity of the case and the number of victims. It instead grants the government’s 
motion to authorize the United Stat es to compensate victims with finally forfeited assets through 
a remission process, as restitution would be impractical in this ca se.” (Dkt. 424 at 6). This aspect 
of the judgment was entered pursuant to 18 U.S. C. § 3663A(c)(3)(A)-(B), which states that 
restitution is not mandatory if the Court finds either that “the  number of identifiable victims is so 
large as to make restitution impracticable,” or that  “determining complex issues of fact related to 
the cause or amount of the victim’s losses would complicate or prolong the sentencing process to 
a degree that the need to provide restitution to  any victim is outweighed by the burden on the 
sentencing process.” 
 
As explained in the Government’s submis sion ahead of Bankman-Fried’s sentencing, 
ordering restitution would be extr emely costly and administrativel y impractical in this case.  See 
Dkt. 410 at 109-112.  Therefore, the Government seeks to return all stolen assets to victims through 
a remission process, consistent with its frequent  approach in complex fraud cases with numerous 
victims.  See id. at 110 (citing United States v. Madoff, 09 Cr. 213 (DC), Dkt. 106 & United States 
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
              2 6  F e d e r a l  P l a z a  
              New York, New York 10278  
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 517     Filed 10/07/24     Page 1 of 2


--- PAGE 2 ---

 Page 2 
 
 
 
 
v. Bonventre, 10 Cr. 228, Dkt. 318 (Madoff Ponzi scheme); United States v. Sharma, 18 Cr. 340, 
Dkt. 407 (multi-million dollar cryptocurrency scheme); United States v. Dos Santos , 20 Cr. 398, 
Dkt. 283 (multi-million dollar cryptocurrency scheme)).   
 
At the outset of the sentencing proceedi ng for defendant Caroline Ellison, the Court 
inquired of the Government regarding the proposal for restitution, and the Government responded 
that the Government was “asking that the Court follow the same process as requested at the 
sentencing of Sam Bankman-Fried, which is the Court declined to order restitution,” and that “we 
make the same motion he re.” (Sentencing Transcript, Dkt. 515, at 2-3). Later in the sentencing, 
when the Court pronounced sentence, the Court initially announced that the defendant would “pay 
such restitution, if any, as the Court ma y require in a subsequent proceeding.” ( Id. at 33). The 
Government then referred back to its motion th at the Court follow the same procedure for 
restitution that it followed in the sentencing of Bankman-Fried, and the Court agreed and found 
that the second factor under Section 3663A(c)(3) was met. (Id. at 34-35). Accordingly, it was the 
understanding of the parties that the Court was granting the Government’s  motion not to order 
restitution, just as the Court had done in the judgment of Bankman-Fried, and that the Court was 
doing so based on its finding that  it would be unduly burdensome to adjudicate “complex issues 
of fact related to the cause or amount of the victim’s losses.” 18 U.S.C. § 3663A(c)(3)(B). 
 
The written judgment in this case, however, stat es that the determination of restitution is 
“deferred” until November 6, 2024, and that an amended judgment will be entered after such 
determination. (Dkt. 512, at 6). Accordingly, the Government respectfully requests that the Court 
replace the language on restitution in the judgment with the following language: 
 
The Court declines to order restitution, based on its  finding that de termining complex 
issues of fact related to the cause and amount of the victim’s losses would complicate and 
prolong the sentencing process. It instead grants the government’s motion to authorize the 
United States to compensate victims with finally forfeited assets through a remission 
process, as restitution would be impractical in this case. 
 
The Government has conferred with defense counsel, who joins in this request.  
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
            D A M I A N  W I L L I A M S  
            U n i t e d  S t a t e s  A t t o r n e y  
             
           b y :   / s /  T h a n e  R e h n          
                   N i c o l a s  R o o s  
Danielle R. Sassoon  
            T h a n e  R e h n  
            D a n i e l l e  K u d l a           
            A s s i s t a n t  U n i t e d  S t a t e s  A t t o r n e y s  
 
cc: Defense Counsel (by ECF) 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 517     Filed 10/07/24     Page 2 of 2