

--- PAGE 1 ---

[Type text] 
 
e 
 
 
										
  October 19, 2023 
 
 
By ECF 
 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007  
 
  R e :  United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan:  
 
The Government respectfully submits this letter regarding potential jury instructions in this 
case. First, the Government requests an instruction that a defendant’s intent to repay 
misappropriated or fraudulently obt ained funds is not a defense. Second, to the extent that the 
defendant seeks to introduce any evidence or argument regarding his moral or political beliefs, the 
Government may request an instruction that it is not a defense if a defendant, acting with intent to 
defraud, was motivated in his conduct by his be liefs. Third, the Government notes that its 
previously filed request to charge contained a proposed instruction regarding disclaimers in 
contracts, which is now even more appropriate following the testimony of Can Sun. (Dkt. 214, at 
35). The Government respectfully su bmits that the evidence at trial supports the inclusion of this 
instruction, which is in accordance with the law in this Circuit.  
 
In addition to the above, the G overnment respectfully submits that certain instructions in 
the defendant’s request to charge (Dkt. 215) are legally erroneous, likely to confuse the jury, or 
both. The Government also notes that it may seek additional instructions to address any new issues 
or arguments raised in the defense case. 
 
A. The Government Requests an Instruction That Intent to Repay Is Not a Defense 
 
Over the course of the trial, the defense has attempted to introduce evidence and argument 
to suggest that the defendant’s misappropriation of FTX customer funds was not criminal because 
he believed that he would ultimately be able to repay customers, either by growing FTX’s business, 
by making successful investments, or by some  other means designed to cover customer 
withdrawals. (E.g., Tr. 49:9-16 (defense opening arguing th at defendant believed that the money 
would be paid back); Tr. 54:7-10 (arguing that defendant did not intend to do harm because he 
wanted to “repay customers”)). As this Court noted previously, “it is immaterial as a matter of law 
whether the defendant intended to repay the mi sappropriated funds because the offense is 
‘complete’ where, as alleged here, there is an ‘immediate intent to misapply and defraud.’” United 
 
 
The Silvio J. Mollo Building 
              O n e  S a i n t  A n d r e w ’ s  P l a z a  
              New York, New York 10007  
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District o
f New York 


--- PAGE 2 ---

  Pa ge 2 
 
 
States v. Bankman-Fried , No. 22 Cr. 673 (LAK), 2023 WL 4194773, at *9 (S.D.N.Y. June 27, 
2023). Accordingly, there is a factual predicate for a “no ultimate harm” instruction along the lines 
that the Second Circuit ha s repeatedly affirmed. See United States v. Lange , 834 F.3d 58, 79 (2d 
Cir. 2016) (“A ‘no ultimate harm’ instruction given by the district court is proper where (1) there 
was sufficient factual predicate to necessitate the instruction, (2) the instruction required the jury 
to find intent to defraud to convict, and (3) th ere was no evidence that the instruction caused 
confusion.”). The Government’s prior request to charge includes a clear and detailed instruction 
to the jury that it must find intent to defraud to convict. (Dkt. 214 at 12-14). Thus, the Government 
requests the addition of a “no ultimate harm” instruction, as warranted by the arguments made in 
the defense opening and the facts that the defens e has repeatedly sought to elicit through cross-
examination of witnesses. 
 
The Government requests that the Court provide the following instruction, which is adapted 
from the instructions affirmed in Lange, as well as in United States v. Koh, 199 F.3d 632, 641 (2d 
Cir. 1999), and United States v. Berkovich, 168 F.3d 64, 67 (2d Cir. 1999): 
 
You are instructed that a belief by the defendant, if such belief existed, that 
ultimately everything would work out so that no one would lose any money or 
property does not warrant a finding by you th at the defendant acted in good faith. 
No amount of honest belief on the part of  the defendant that the scheme would 
ultimately make a profit for customers or  lenders would excuse fraudulent actions 
or false representations by him to obtain money or property. 
 
B. The Government Requests an Instruction That It Is Not a Defense if a Defendant Was 
Motivated by his Moral or Political Beliefs to Break the Law 
 
The defendant has in certain public statements emphasized his philosophy of so-called 
“effective altruism” to argue that his business decisions were motivated by a desire to do good in 
the world. Any such arguments are not a defense to fraud or other criminal charges, as courts have 
repeatedly recognized. Similarly, any argument that the defendant lacked wrongful intent because 
he subscribed to an idiosyncratic philosophy about  the morality of lying and stealing, and placed 
a greater premium on his subjective conception of the long-term good, would be irrelevant to the 
mens rea for wire fraud. See, e.g. , United States v. Edwards , 101 F.3d 17, 19 (2d Cir. 1996) 
(affirming the following jury instruction given by district court: “There was talk here of motive by 
the defendant. The motive that defendant had or claimed to ha ve had for committing a crime 
charged is irrelevant to his gui lt or non-guilt. Whether this defe ndant committed acts in order to 
further a political goal or for a si milar reason, for his personal gain  or for the gain of somebody 
else, doesn’t excuse his acts if he committed them and violated the law.”); see also United States 
v. Gatto, 986 F.3d 104, 133 (2d Cir. 2021) (Lynch, J., concurring in part) (“Such a ‘Robin Hood’ 
defense – that the defendants were essentially robbing the rich to help the poor – is of course also 
not a legal defense.”); United States v. Spano, 421 F.3d 599, 603 (7th Cir. 2005) (“A  participant 
in a scheme to defraud is guilty ev en if he is an altruist and all the benefits of the fraud accrue to 
other participants.”). To the extent that the defense case attempts to argue that the defendant was 
motivated by his moral and political beliefs, or  that he did not believe he was engaged in 
wrongdoing because he was using customer funds fo r altruistic purposes, or any other similar 


--- PAGE 3 ---

  Pa ge 3 
 
 
suggestion, the Government will request that the Court provide the jury with the following 
instruction: 
 
Proof of bad motive is not required to  convict. And good motive alone is not a 
defense. You have heard evidence that the defendant was motivated by his personal 
philosophical or moral outlook. If you find that the defendant intended to defraud 
others in order to achieve those aims, his asserted philosophical or other motive for 
those actions does not excuse his acts and is not a defense to the crimes charged in 
the Indictment. 
 
C. The Government’s Requested Instruction Regarding Disclaimers Is Warranted by 
the Facts 
 
In its request to charge, th e Government proposed the fo llowing instruction concerning 
disclaimers: 
 
In considering whether a statement or omission was materi al, let me caution you 
that a clause in an investment cont ract or a disclaimer cannot render any 
misrepresentation, including any oral misrepresentation, immaterial as a matter of 
law. 
 
(Dkt. 214, at 35). 
 
The Government notes that this instruction is  particularly warranted  i n  l i g h t  o f  c e r t a i n  
arguments made by the defense and by the evidence introduced in the case to date. Specifically, in 
its opening statement, th e defense highlighted certain langua ge from the FTX terms of service 
relating to margin trading and marg in loans, in an apparent atte mpt to suggest th at these terms 
authorized the defendant’s actions. (Tr. 44:8-11) . The defense then attempted to cross-examine 
former FTX general counsel Can Sun on this same provision during trial today. While being cross-
examined by the defense, Mr. Sun indicated that this provision was “drafted mostly for disclaimer 
purposes” and that there were more detailed policies and representations regarding margin trading, 
liquidation, and margin loans that were made by FTX and the defendant elsewhere. (Tr. 1984).  
 
Accordingly, this instruction is fully warrant ed by the facts and to prevent any confusion 
by the jury that it should evaluate the defendant’s conduct solely in terms of whether it constituted 
a violation of the FTX terms of service. While the terms of service are certainly part of the overall 
body of actions, representations, and omissions made by the defendant and his co-conspirators, the 
jury will not be asked to evalua te whether there was a violation of the terms of service or to 
interpret the effect of particular pr ovisions of the terms of service. See United States v. Weaver , 
860 F.3d 90, 96 (2d Cir. 2017) (distinguishing criminal  cases under mail and wire fraud statutes 
from civil fraud actions and noting that “fraudsters may not escape criminal liability for lies told 
to induce gullible victims to make worthless i nvestments by inducing them to sign a contract 
containing disclaimers of reliance”). In light of the fact that the discussion of disclaimers came up 
in the context of FTX’s terms of service, th e Government would not object to a disclaimer 
instruction narrowed to “a clause in the terms of service or a disclaimer.”  
 


--- PAGE 4 ---

  Pa ge 4 
 
 
D. The Government Objects to the Following Legally Incorrect Statements of Law in the 
Defendant’s Proposed Jury Instructions 
 
In the defendant’s August 21, 2023, proposed jury instructions (see Dkt. 215), he proposed 
several statements of law that are not legally co rrect or are otherwise u nnecessary, confusing, or 
particularly in comparison with the instructions proposed by th e Government.  Accordingly, the 
Government objects to the following parts of the defendant’s proposed instruction:  
 
First, on pages 10 and 14 of th e defendant’s requests he proposes instructing the jury that 
“[p]roperty does not include intangible interests such as the right to control the use of one’s assets, 
nor does it include potentially va luable economic information that a person might consider 
valuable in deciding how to use his or her assets.” (Dkt. 215 at 10, 14).  It is unnecessary to instruct 
the jury that property does not include “intangible interests such as the right to control” because 
as the Court previously held, th e fraud charges in this case ar e not based on a right-to-control 
theory, see United States v. Bankman-Fried , No. 22 Cr. 673 (LAK), 2023 WL 4194773, at *9 
(S.D.N.Y. June 27, 2023), and the Government does not  intend to argue that victim customers or 
lenders were deprived of the right to control th e use of their assets.  Rather, the Government’s 
allegation, as the trial has made clear, is that the defendant took victims’ money and property. The 
Government’s proposed instructions would explicitly focus the jury on the “money or property” 
object, and do not use a “right to control” theory, and therefore are appropriate based on the facts 
of the case. Compare United States v. Barbera , No. 21 Cr. 154 (JGK), 2023 WL 6066249, at *1 
(S.D.N.Y. Sept. 18, 2023) (rejecting the defendant’s challenge to wire fraud jury instructions based 
on Ciminelli where the instruction “did not use a right to control theory” and “limited the object 
of the fraud to the traditional property concept of money or property”), with  United States v. Hild, 
No. 19 Cr. 602 (RA), 2023 WL 5928350, at *13 (S.D.N .Y. Sept. 12, 2023) (d escribing right to 
control language in jury char ge but finding its in clusion harmless). In addition to being 
unnecessary, such an in struction would undoubtedly confuse th e jury, which, not being charged 
with knowing developments in the law of wire  fraud generally, would have no understanding of 
the irrelevant concept of the right to control.  
 
Second, the next sentence in the defendant’s proposed charge is factually and legally 
baseless.  Specifically, the defendant proposes on pages 10 and 11 to instruct the jury that: “If you 
find that FTX customers, after depositing funds with FTX, received a credit to transact on the FTX 
exchange and therefore received the right to withdr aw an equivalent amount  of funds at a later 
time upon request, that is insufficient to establish that they were deprived of property.” (Dkt. 215 
at 10-11). As a threshold matter, that proposal is untethered to the facts of the case. There has been 
no testimony or evidence during the trial that after depositing funds, customers “received a credit 
to transact” or that their property right was limited to a “right to withdraw an equivalent amount.” 
Where there is no basis in evidence for a theory, the defendant is “not as a matter of law entitled 
to an instruction specifically apprising the jury of that theory.” United States v. Evangelista
, 122 
F.3d 112, 117-18 (2d Cir. 1997). Moreover, that instru ction is legally incorrect. The requirement 
that a defendant devise a scheme  to obtain money or property is  satisfied “where a defendant 
fraudulently obtains the use of another person’s money or property for a period of time, using it 
for his own personal profit, and depriving the owner of the ability to do so,” regardless of “whether 
temporarily … or permanently.” United States v. Males , 459 F.3d 154, 158-59 (2d Cir. 2006) 
(emphasis in original). Thus, it is incorrect as a matter of law—and common sense—that as long 


--- PAGE 5 ---

  Pa ge 5 
 
 
as a victim receives a credit and a right to withdraw, he or she has not been deprived of money or 
property.  Indeed, a credit to obtain funds at a later date, if such  funds are ultimately available, is 
clearly not the same, or as valuable, as the money or property itself, as is illustrated by the result 
when FTX’s customers, not knowing that their m oney had been spent, so ught to withdraw their 
deposits.
1 
 
Third, parts of the defendant’s proposed instructions on wire fraud misstate the applicable 
mens rea  requirements. The applicable mens rea  for wire fraud is “specific intent to harm or 
defraud the victims of the scheme.”  United States v. Rybicki , 354 F.3d 124, 150 (2d Cir. 2003). 
The word “willfully” appears nowhere in the text of the wire fraud statute. See United States v. 
Gole, 21 F. Supp. 2d 161, 167-68 (E.D.N.Y. 1997) (“‘Willfully’ appears nowhere in the mail fraud 
statute, and the Second Circuit has expressly held that the only scienter requirement for a violation 
of § 1341 is that the acts proscrib ed be carried out ‘knowingly.’”); United States v. Blagojevich , 
794 F.3d 729, 739 (7th Cir. 2015) (“The wire-fraud statute requires a specific intent to defraud but 
not willfulness or any other proxy for knowledge of the law.”); United States v. Dockray, 943 F.2d 
152, 156 (1st Cir. 1991) (holding that “willfulness” is “not synonymous with the intent to defraud 
requirement in the mail and wire fraud statutes”); United States v. DiRoberto, 686 F. App’x 458, 
461 (9th Cir. 2017) (“The mail and wire fraud statutes do not require proof of willfulness.”).  As a 
result, several aspects of the proposed defense instruction on page 11 and 12 of their requests are 
wrong or may confuse the jury, including that the defendant is not guilty unless he “purposefully 
violated an obligation that pr ohibited use” or acted “with know ledge that [his] conduct [was] 
unlawful, and with intent to do  something the law forbids.” (D kt. 215 at 11-12). If the Court is 
inclined to instruct the jury on willfulness, the Government requests the willfulness instruction set 
forth on pages 14 and 15 of its requests to charge. (See Dkt. 214 at 14-15).  
 
Fourth, the Government opposes the specific example of good faith cited in the defendant’s 
requests at page 12, that if th e defendant “acted in good faith w ith respect to the use of FTX 
customer funds and with the belief that as a bu siness matter, FTX would be able to cover all 
customer withdrawal requests, he did not act with specific intent to defraud.” This would be likely 
to confuse the jury about whether a belief that customers could be repaid  after their property is 
wrongfully taken is a defense (it is not).      
 
Fifth, as set forth in the Government’s prior briefing, the Government opposes a 
generalized presence of counsel instruction such as the one offered by the defendant at page 13 of 
his requests. The Government respectfully submits  that the Court should give the Government’s 
requested charge on this issue. (See Dkt. 214 at 71).  
 
Finally, the defendant proposed an instruction on bias of witnesses, including relating to 
an interest in the outcome of the case. In the event the defendant testifies, the Government submits 
that the instruction should be given in a way that does not suggest that the defendant has a motive 
to falsely testify based solely on his interest in the outcome of the case. United States v. Solano , 
 
1 A popular movie from the 1990s illustrates the point: a briefcase, once filled with money, 
is not the same as a briefcase later filled with IOUs.  See DUMB & DUMBER (1994), available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7GSXbgfKFWg (rejecting sugge stion by actor Jim Carrey’s 
character that “IOUs” are “as good as money”).   


--- PAGE 6 ---

  Pa ge 6 
 
 
966 F.3d 184, 197 (2d Cir. 2020) (holding that it was error for the dist rict court to instruct that 
“any” witness with an interest in the outco me of the case, which included the defendant, 
necessarily has a “motive to testify falsely”). 
  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
DAMIAN WILLIAMS 
United States Attorney for the 
Southern District of New York 
 
 
 By:  /s Thane Rehn      
  Danielle R. Sassoon 
Nicolas Roos 
Danielle Kudla 
Samuel Raymond 
Thane Rehn 
Assistant United States Attorneys 
(212) 637-2354 
 
Cc: Counsel of Record (via ECF) 