

--- PAGE 1 ---

 
McCarter & English, LLP 
Worldwide Plaza 
825 Eighth Avenue 
31st Floor 
New York, NY 10019-7475 
www.mccarter.com 
David Adler 
Partner 
T.
212
-609-6847
F. 212
-645-1025
dadler@mccarter.com
October 29, 2024 
VIA ECF 
Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Judge 
Daniel Patrick Moynihan 
United States Courthouse 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, NY 10007-1312 
Re: United States v. Nishad Singh, 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
Dear Judge Kaplan, 
I write on behalf of my client Seth Melamed (“Melamed”).   Mr. Melamed was the 
former Chief Operating Officer (“COO”) and Representative Director of FTX Japan 
(“FTX Japan” or “FTXJ”).  
Mr. Melamed wishes to bring to the Court’s attention certain misstatements in the 
sentencing submission of Nishad Singh dated October 6, 2024, ECF Doc. #523 
(the “Sentencing Submission”) and provide the Court with accurate information.  
Specifically, in his Sentencing Submission, Mr. Singh asserts: 
Protecting FTX Japan Customers. FTX Japan custodied its customer assets 
in a particular kind of “cold wallet” that Bankman-Fried and Wang could not 
access. Bankman-Fried and Wang told the COO of FTX Japan to switch 
over to a different system that would give them access to those funds. After 
Nishad learned about the hole in customer funds, he called the COO and 
convinced him not to switch over to the system, precisely because he knew 
Bankman-Fried and Wang could improperly use the funds. In the final days 
of FTX, this meant that FTX Japan’s customer funds could not be used 
improperly to repay the debt owed to non-Japan FTX users. Only four 
months after the collapse of FTX, FTX Japan was able to reopen 
withdrawals for its customers   
Sentencing Submission, ECF Doc. No. 523 at 34.  
Mr. Melamed wishes to advise the Court that this paragraph is completely false. 
First, Mr. Singh fails to point the Court to any testimony to corroborate this 
story.  Nor does the Government reference this story in its sentencing submission.  
10/30/24
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 530     Filed 10/30/24     Page 1 of 2


--- PAGE 2 ---

Hon. Lewis Kaplan 
October 29, 2024 
Page 2 
 
 
 
Second, Mr. Melamed wishes to advise the Court that neither SBF nor Wang 
reached out to Mr. Melamed in an attempt to change the wallet structure which he 
and the FTX Japan’s Operations team were managing.  As the Representative 
Director of FTX Japan, Mr. Melamed bore personal and professional responsibility 
for the safekeeping and control of FTX Japan’s clients’ assets, including digital 
assets stored in cold wallets.  In Japan, the applicable Japanese regulations and 
FTX Japan’s own internal policies governing wallet management are extensive, 
clear, and by design, are not easily changed.  There was no scenario in which SBF, 
Wang, or Singh could have persuaded Mr. Melamed to change how wallets were 
managed. Mr. Melamed could not and would not deviate from Japanese regulations 
or FTX Japan’s internal guidelines and policies that were in place to securely 
segregate client funds. 
 
As noted in the Sentencing Submission, FTXJ was able to return all customer 
assets/funds within four months of the parent company's (FTX Trading 
Ltd.)  insolvency.  This occurred due to the unwavering resolve of the FTX Japan’s 
operations team to follow the rules in Japan regarding asset segregation and 
customer protection before the FTX petition filing date and the team’s commitment 
to serve its customers post-petition.   
Third, Mr. Singh asserts that he called Mr. Melamed to convince him not to switch 
the wallet infrastructure because he knew SBF and Wang would improperly use the 
funds.  Mr. Melamed has no recollection that Mr. Singh called, emailed or sent him 
a Slack message with a warning or information to be wary of a change of 
infrastructure because of SBF’s or Wang’s intent to obtain access to customer 
assets of FTXJ.  Simply stated, Singh did not undertake the measures described in 
his Sentencing Submission.  Had Mr. Singh warned Mr. Melamed of the hole in the 
FTX Trading Ltd. balance sheet or the potential damage that would be caused by 
SBF or Wang if the FTXJ wallet infrastructure had been changed, there is much 
more that Mr. Melamed could have and would have done to try to protect FTX’s 
customers not only inside of Japan but in other regions where FTX operated.  Since 
Singh furnished no such warning, Mr. Melamed was shocked and angered, like 
many others, when the extent of the misappropriation of FTX’s client assets 
facilitated by SBF, Wang, Singh, and Ellison became apparent upon the bankruptcy 
petition filing in November 2022.
 
As noted above, Mr. Melamed wishes to correct the record and highlight the 
misstatements in the Sentencing Submission.  Given the complete lack of 
evidence, Mr. Melamed respectfully requests that this Court give no weight to Mr. 
Singh’s false assertions in connection with his sentencing.   
 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ David J. Adler 
David J. Adler  
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK     Document 530     Filed 10/30/24     Page 2 of 2