

--- PAGE 1 ---

[Type text] 
 
e 
 
 
          
  October 24, 2023 
 
 
By ECF 
 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007  
 
 
  Re: United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan:  
 
The Government writes regarding the trial schedule for this week.  Last week, the 
Government indicated that it had several witnesses remaining and expected to rest some time 
Thursday morning.  Following that representation, the Court assented to the defens e’s request to 
begin its case following the lunch break.  Since then, the Government has further streamlined its 
case, and now anticipates calling at most only one witness, FBI Special Agent Marc Troiano, 
whose direct testimony is approximately thirty minu tes or less, and consists principally of 
authenticating a summary chart.  The Government has been in discussions with the defense about 
entering a stipulation about the summary chart, which would obviate the need for Special Agent 
Troiano’s testimony entirely.  Alternatively, t he Government is seeking a stipulation from the 
defense regarding chain of custody of certain electronic devices, which—if agreed upon—will at 
the very least shorten Special Agent Troiano’s testimony to about fifteen minutes.   
 
The Government therefore respectfully requests that the defense be required to begin its 
case after the Government rests, which in all events will be soon after the start of the trial day.  The 
parties will have had six days to prepare for the upcoming trial days and the Government is mindful 
of optimizing the use of the jury’s time.  The defense has provided the Government a list of six 
potential witnesses for the week.  In the Government’s view, the interest of trial efficiency weighs 
heavily in favor of moving trial along.   
 
The Government  raised this proposal with the defense on Monday, October 23.  The 
defense informed the Government this afternoon that it opposes this request.  
 
  
 
 
The Silvio J. Mollo Building 
              One Saint Andrew’s Plaza 
              New York, New York 10007 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 


--- PAGE 2 ---

  Page 2 
 
In addition, the Government respectfully requests that if the defense rests on Thursday or 
Friday morning, that the Court hold a charge conference on Friday afternoon, so that the parties 
can proceed to closing arguments on Monday morning.  
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
DAMIAN WILLIAMS 
United States Attorney for the 
Southern District of New York 
 
 
 By:  /s Danielle R. Sassoon     
  Danielle R. Sassoon 
Nicolas Roos 
Danielle Kudla 
Samuel Raymond 
Thane Rehn 
Assistant United States Attorneys 
(212) 637-2354 
 
Cc: Counsel of Record (via ECF) 