

--- PAGE 1 ---

MINHAS PSYCHIATRY 
CHILD  |  ADULT  |  FORENSICS 
28 1st Street 
Stamford, CT 06905 
Phone/Fax: 203.604.9000 
info@minhaspsychiatry.com
February 23, 2024 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
Daniel Patrick Moynihan United States Courthouse
500 Pearl Street
New York, NY 10007
RE: Samuel Bankman-Fried (DOB: 03/05/1992) 
Honorable Judge Kaplan, 
I am a practicing clinical and forensic psychiatrist. After medical school, I 
completed a psychiatry residency at Brown University, and then further training in 
pediatric psychiatry at Brown University, and forensic psychiatry at Yale 
University. I have a clinical practice in Connecticut, and a large part of my work 
focusses on developmental disorders in children and adults. I am a Clinical 
Assistant Professor at the Yale University Department of Law and Psychiatry, the 
Chief of Autism Services at the Hospital for Special Care, and the Medical 
Director at Turnbridge Treatment Programs. In addition to my clinical work, I am 
trained and experienced in performing forensic psychiatric evaluations in both civil 
and criminal cases. 
At the request of Mr. Bankman-Fried’s legal team, I performed a forensic 
psychiatric evaluation on Mr. Bankman-Fried on 07/19/2023. At the time of the 
interview, I informed Mr. Bankman-Fried that the evaluation was being conducted 
at the request of his legal team, and that the information he would provide me 
would initially be protected under the work product doctrine. I also informed him 
www.minhaspsychiatry.com
Ex. A-21
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-22   Filed 02/27/24   Page 1 of 4


--- PAGE 2 ---

Page  of 4 2
 that if he and his legal team were to ask me to compile and submit a letter or a 
report, then the information he provided me would potentially not remain 
confidential. Mr. Bankman-Fried verbalized understanding of these advisements 
and agreed to proceed. 
As part of my evaluation, I met with Mr. Bankman-Fried in-person for 
approximately four hours, and I also interviewed his parents to obtain collateral 
information. 
After evaluating Mr. Bankman-Fried, it is my opinion, based on a reasonable 
degree of medical certainty, that Mr. Bankman-Fried meets criterion for Autism 
Spectrum Disorder (ASD). According to the DSM-5,  ASD is a type of 
1
developmental disorder  that is characterized by persistent deficits in social 2
communication and social interaction, and by restricted and repetitive patterns of 
behavior, interests, or activities. The symptoms of ASD are present in the early 
developmental period, and cause impairment in social, occupational, or other 
important areas of functioning. 
ASD, as the name suggests, is a spectrum. On the one end is low-functioning 
autism, which may be accompanied by Intellectual Disability, limited or absent  
speech, and a variety of other physical and psychological symptoms. On the other 
end of the spectrum is high-functioning autism, which in the past was at times 
referred to as Asperger Syndrome. According to the Center for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC), 1 in 36 children have been identified with ASD.   
3
 The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual - the authoritative guide used by psychiatrists to classify 1
psychiatric disorders
 Neurodevelopment disorders are a group of conditions that develop in the developmental period. These 2
disorder generally first manifest in early childhood, and may impact social, academic, and occupational 
functioning.
 https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/autism/data.html3
Ex. A-21
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-22   Filed 02/27/24   Page 2 of 4


--- PAGE 3 ---

Page  of 4 3
Based on my evaluation of Mr. Bankman-Fried, it is my opinion that he does not 
have any intellectual deficits  and in-fact he presented as intellectually gifted. He 4
did present with a history of social deficits and stereotyped interests that are 
consistent with high-functioning ASD. It is not unusual for high-functioning ASD 
to go undiagnosed until later in life. The reason for this is that the deficits may be 
subtle, and the impact of the deficits may not be as overt or as obvious as the 
deficits in low-functioning ASD. 
Mr. Bankman-Fried’s symptoms of ASD impact the nature of his social 
interactions. During my evaluation, he demonstrated deficits in being able to read 
social-cues, and appropriately respond to them. Mr. Bankman-Fried has developed 
some understanding of these deficits, and has made attempts to compensate for 
them (as many individuals with high-functioning ASD are able to do). Having said 
this, the deficits persist and may present in various settings as him being socially 
awkward or inappropriate, not understanding social nuance, or responding in ways 
that may be perceived as off-putting to others. 
The deficits of ASD are generally life-long, and it is my opinion that Mr. 
Bankman-Fried would continue to exhibit the symptoms of high-functioning ASD 
through the remainder of his lifetime. These deficits will likely continue to impact 
his social interactions, and his ability to optimally navigate social situations.  
During incarceration, individuals with ASD (in comparison to neurotypical 
individuals) face an additional set of challenges. These challenges stem from the 
core social deficits of ASD, which impact the ability to appropriately interact with 
other inmates or prison personnel and officials. 
 Deficits in intellectual functions, generally characterized by an intelligence quotient (IQ) that is 4
significantly below average
Ex. A-21
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-22   Filed 02/27/24   Page 3 of 4


--- PAGE 4 ---

Page  of 4 4
From a medical perspective, in order to address these deficits on a continued basis, 
in my opinion Mr. Bankman-Fried would benefit from ongoing access to 
psychotherapy, psychiatric management, and monitoring of his deficits and 
symptoms. It would also be beneficial for the personnel interacting with him to 
have training and understanding of the deficits of ASD, in order to inform their 
interactions with him. 
Respectfully submitted,  
Hassan M. Minhas M.D.
Ex. A-21
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 407-22   Filed 02/27/24   Page 4 of 4