

--- PAGE 1 ---

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VICTIM IMPACT STATEMENT OF INTERVENORS FTX TRADING LTD., WEST 
REALM SHIRES INC., ALAMEDA RESEARCH LLC, ALAMEDA RESEARCH LTD 
AND THEIR SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 415   Filed 03/20/24   Page 1 of 8


--- PAGE 2 ---

  
 
 
 -1- 
 
  
      March 20, 2024 
 
Judge Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Court  
Southern District of New York 
Daniel Patrick Moynihan Courthouse 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York  10007-1312 
 
 Re:  United States of America v. Samuel Bankman-Fried (S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan, 
 
I am the Chief Executive Officer of FTX Trading Ltd. and its affiliated debtors 
and debtors-in-possession (collectively, “FTX”) in the chapter 11 cases (the “Chapter 11 Cases”) 
now pending before Judge John T. Dorsey of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District 
of Delaware (the “Bankruptcy Court”).  I write on behalf of FTX and its millions of creditor-
victims to correct material misstatements and omissions in the sentencing submission made to 
this Court by Mr. Bankman-Fried. 
As set forth more fully below, Mr. Bankman-Fried contends in his sentencing 
submission that, based on a mischaracterization of statements made in the Chapter 11 
proceedings by representatives of the FTX debtors, the “harm to customers, lenders, and 
investors is zero,” because “[t]he money was there—not lost,” and that FTX was solvent at the 
time that the Chapter 11 petition was filed.1  As the lead professional of a very large team who 
has spent over a year stewarding the estate from a metaphorical dumpster fire to a debtor-in-
possession approaching a confirmed plan of reorganization that will return substantial value to 
creditors, I can assure the Court that each of these statements is categorically, callously, and 
demonstrably false.   
The value we hope to return to creditors would not exist without the tens of 
thousands of hours that dedicated professionals have spent digging through the rubble of Mr. 
Bankman-Fried’s sprawling criminal enterprise to unearth every possible dollar, token or other 
asset that was spent on luxury homes, private jets, overpriced speculative ventures, and otherwise 
lost to the four winds.  And even taking into account the potential for achieving anticipated 
recovery levels, which is by no means assured, customers still will never be in the same position 
                                                 
1  Samuel Bankman-Fried’s Sentencing Memorandum, U.S. v. Samuel Bankman-
Fried, 1:22-cr-00673-LAK, 18 (S.D.N.Y. Feb. 27, 2024) (ECF No. 407) (emphasis in 
original). 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 415   Filed 03/20/24   Page 2 of 8


--- PAGE 3 ---

  
 
 
 -2- 
 
they would have been had they not crossed paths with Mr. Bankman-Fried and his so-called 
brand of “altruism.” 
Background and Independence of Current Management 
I was appointed as CEO by Mr. Bankman-Fried during the early morning hours of 
November 11, 2022 (the “Petition Date”) by his execution and delivery of the Omnibus 
Corporate Authority attached to this letter as Exhibit A (the “Authorization”).   
I have over three decades of experience in complex multi-national restructurings 
and asset recovery exercises, first as a lawyer, as both external and internal counsel, and then 
leading the restructuring and asset recovery efforts as the senior business person.  Among the 
matters I have led include Enron, Nortel Networks US, Overseas Shipholding Group and 
Residential Capital.   
I report to an independent and experienced board of directors comprised of 
Matthew A. Doheny, Rishi Jain, Matthew R. Rosenberg and Mitchell I. Sonkin, each of whom 
have decades of experience in complex restructurings and asset recovery exercises involving 
such companies as MBIA, Residential Capital, Covanta Energy, USG, Yellow Corporation, and 
Nortel Networks US, as well as the Honorable Joseph J. Farnan, Jr. (Ret.), the former chief judge 
of the United States District Court for the District of Delaware and former United States 
Attorney for the District of Delaware (collectively, the “Board”).  Prior to the Petition Date, 
neither I nor any of the Board members had any connection with FTX, Mr. Bankman-Fried, or 
any of the other leaders of the FTX Group.  Judge Dorsey has repeatedly found that both I and 
the Board are independent and highly qualified to lead FTX.   
FTX Bankruptcy Recoveries and the Bankman-Fried Sentencing Memorandum 
On February 27, 2024, Mr. Bankman-Fried filed his sentencing memorandum (the 
“Bankman-Fried Sentencing Memorandum”).  A central focus of the Bankman-Fried Sentencing 
Memorandum (and of many of its exhibits) is on the loss caused by Mr. Bankman-Fried’s crimes 
because, as I understand the criminal sentencing guidelines, the larger the loss, the longer the 
potential sentence.  As such, Mr. Bankman-Fried takes issue with the loss calculation and baldly 
asserts: 
 “[T]he most reasonable estimate of loss is zero.”  (Id. at 17) 
 “[T]he company was solvent at the time of the bankruptcy petition.”  (Id. at 18) 
 “The money was there—not lost.”  (Id.) 
 “The harm to customers, lenders, and investors is zero.”  (emphasis in original) 
(Id.) 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 415   Filed 03/20/24   Page 3 of 8


--- PAGE 4 ---

  
 
 
 -3- 
 
 “FTX US and FTX.com were solvent as of the petition date.”  (Id. at 19) 
 “[T]he correct loss is zero.”  (Id.) 
To support these statements, Mr. Bankman-Fried relies on the transcript of a 
hearing before the Bankruptcy Court on January 31, 2024, describing it as one at which “debtor’s 
counsel in the consolidated FTX and Alameda bankruptcy proceeding stated in summary that 
customers and creditors who can prove their losses are expected to get back all their money,” and 
on misinterpretations of materials prepared and publicly released at my direction.2  These 
statements are adopted and repeated in materials prepared and submitted by certain of Mr. 
Bankman-Fried’s supporters.3   
All of these statements are both reckless and false.  Mr. Bankman-Fried cites 14 
lines of the transcript from the January 31, 2024 Bankruptcy Court hearing and three news 
reports of the hearing.4  However, Mr. Bankman-Fried ignores pages and pages of important 
commentary, qualifications, and caveats from that hearing (transcript attached as Exhibit B).  
Yet, even assuming that all of the contingencies standing between the creditors and the 
anticipated recovery are resolved favorably, and we certainly hope they will be, Mr. Bankman-
Fried’s victims will never be returned to the same economic position they would have been in 
today absent his colossal fraud.   
Indeed, even the best conceivable outcome in the Chapter 11 proceeding will not 
yield a true, full economic recovery by all creditors and non-insider equity investors as if the 
fraud never happened.  As to creditors, the Bankruptcy Code provides that each creditor’s claim 
must be valued as of the Petition Date.  In other words, a victim who had bitcoin on the FTX 
exchange on November 11, 2022 will receive, as the Bankruptcy Court has determined, a 
distribution based on the value of the claim on that date, which is approximately 400% lower 
than the value today.  Because the value of certain cryptocurrencies has risen sharply since the 
petition was filed, many of Mr. Bankman-Fried’s victims are extremely unhappy with the 
“petition date value” provided for under the law.  Instead, they believe they should receive 
something closer to today’s value for their Petition Date cryptocurrency deposits or the 
cryptocurrency reflected in their Petition Date account statements.  Unfortunately, due to “back 
door” borrowing (theft) by Alameda at Mr. Bankman-Fried’s direction, those account statements 
were incorrect—the FTX debtors did not possess the crypto that customers assumed was held in 
their accounts as of the Petition Date.   
                                                 
2  Id. 
3  See, e.g., id., Ex. A-6. 
4  See, e.g., id. at 17, 21. 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 415   Filed 03/20/24   Page 4 of 8


--- PAGE 5 ---

  
 
 
 -4- 
 
As such, a current value approach to customer claims is not an option in this case.  
Focusing on bitcoin, by way of example, when I took over as CEO, there were only 105 bitcoins 
left on the FTX.com exchange, against customer entitlements of nearly 100,000 bitcoins.  Why 
were the bitcoins missing?  A jury has concluded beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Bankman-
Fried stole them and converted them into other things.  For that reason, they are not available to 
be returned in-kind to his victims.   
Mr. Bankman-Fried also ignores the fact that his companies raised nearly $2 
billion from the cash sale of preferred stock to non-insiders and over $100 million from the cash 
sale of common stock to non-insiders.  Even if non-governmental creditors are paid in full at 
Petition Date value because the IRS, CFTC and other governmental creditors agree to 
subordinate their claims, any material return to stockholders is highly unlikely.   
Mr. Bankman-Fried simply ignores the many achievements of the estate’s team of 
professionals that are the real reason why assets are available to provide some measure of 
recovery to his victims, including for example: 
 The filing of the Chapter 11 petitions (which Mr. Bankman-Fried contends should 
never have happened) invoked the protection of the automatic stay, and its 
recognition throughout most of the world helped stop the damage brought about 
by the disastrous collapse caused by Mr. Bankman-Fried’s crimes (Transcript of 
Hearing Before the Honorable John T. Dorsey at 20, In re FTX Trading Ltd., et al, 
22-bk-11068 (JTD) (Bankr. D. Del. Jan. 31, 2024) [D.I. 6908] (“January 31 
Tr.”)). 
 Achievement in a contested litigation to have customer claims valued as of the 
Petition Date, not the date of confirmation of a plan of reorganization (currently 
estimated to be in the second half of 2024) (Id. at 26).  This was the subject of the 
bulk of the hearing on January 31, 2024, when the court ruled in FTX’s favor.  
(Id. at 128-131).  Absent this relief, recovery rates would have been substantially 
lower. 
 Turnover litigation, and the threat of such litigation, has resulted in the recovery 
of hundreds of millions of dollars of improper transfers made at the direction of 
Mr. Bankman-Fried.  (Id. at 20-21). 
 As a result of a policy I implemented at the direction of the Board to cooperate 
with governmental investigations, there have been no criminal indictments of any 
FTX corporate entities.  (Id. at 21).  If Mr. Bankman-Fried had remained in 
control, it is difficult to imagine that the corporate entities would not have been 
charged criminally. 
 Settlements were achieved with the representatives of FTX estate that filed for 
insolvency protection in Australia and The Bahamas.  (Id. at 22). 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 415   Filed 03/20/24   Page 5 of 8


--- PAGE 6 ---

  
 
 
 -5- 
 
Among the many other important contingencies, caveats, and qualifications that 
Mr. Bankman-Fried ignores, all of which must be resolved favorably to achieve our anticipated 
recovery levels, are the following:  
 We are working on a coordinated distribution scheme that will funnel over 
$1 billion in value seized by prosecutors to victims of Mr. Bankman-Fried’s 
crimes.  (Id. at 21).  The success of this effort is critical to achieving our goals. 
 Recoveries to customers and creditors depends entirely on the voluntary 
subordination of over $9 billion in governmental claims for fines and penalties 
otherwise payable as a result of Mr. Bankman-Fried’s crimes.  (Id. at 21).  If such 
claims are subordinated, they will remain claims and are not expected to recover 
at all, which completely destroys Mr. Bankman-Fried’s assertions of solvency. 
 Recoveries to customers and creditors depend entirely on consensual settlements 
of litigations with the CFTC, SEC and IRS.  (Id. at 22).  These settlements relate 
to claims well in excess of $10 billion.  Those settlements have not yet been 
achieved and even if achieved in no way mean that Mr. Bankman-Fried’s crimes 
caused zero harm. 
 We must achieve victory in future litigation over confirmation of the plan of 
reorganization, including on the issue of whether customers have a property 
interest in the cryptocurrencies that appeared in their account records as of the 
Petition Date (and if so, what that property interest means in a circumstance 
where the crypto assets generally did not exist at FTX at that time, due to Mr. 
Bankman-Fried’s crimes). 
 The statements about payments of claims of customers and creditors in full is 
always caveated by the word “allowed” (see id. at 24).  The expectation is that 
allowed claims will be paid in full if all of the hard work described above pays off 
(Id. at 24).  The question remains, though, how one takes a filed claim and turns it 
into an allowed claim.  One must first start at the total dollar amount of claims 
filed.  That number is $23.6 quintillion dollars.  (Id.).  One quintillion is one 
billion billions.  It is the number 1 followed by 18 zeros.  The task of addressing 
filed claims and reducing them to their proper and “allowed” amount is 
monumental.  Mr. Bankman-Fried assumes this is a breeze.  He is wrong—very 
wrong.   
Mr. Bankman-Fried continues to live a life of delusion.  The “business” he left on 
November 11, 2022 was neither solvent nor safe.  Vast sums of money were stolen by Mr. 
Bankman-Fried, and he was rightly convicted by a jury of his peers.  That things that he stole, 
things he converted into other things, whether they were investments in Bahamas real estate, 
cryptocurrencies or speculative ventures, were successfully recovered through the enormous 
efforts of a dedicated group of professionals (a group unfairly maligned by Mr. Bankman-Fried 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 415   Filed 03/20/24   Page 6 of 8


--- PAGE 7 ---

  
 
 
 -6- 
 
and his supporters) does not mean that things were not stolen.  What it means is that we got some 
of them back.  And there are plenty of things we did not get back, like the bribes to Chinese 
officials or the hundreds of millions of dollars he spent to buy access to or time with celebrities 
or politicians or investments for which he grossly overpaid having done zero diligence.  The 
harm was vast.  The remorse is nonexistent.  Effective altruism, at least as lived by Samuel 
Bankman-Fried, was a lie.  
FTX was run for its very short existence by Mr. Bankman-Fried with hubris, 
arrogance, and a complete lack of respect for the basic norms of the law, which is all the more 
inexcusable given his privileged upbringing.  
Mr. Bankman-Fried’s Strategy of Misdirection and Deceit 
On March 15, 2024, the prosecutors who convicted Mr. Bankman-Fried filed their 
sentencing memorandum.  I will refrain from repeating the many good arguments and points the 
government made in that submission, which quite accurately portrays what occurred at FTX, and 
address only two Google documents created by Mr. Bankman-Fried in the weeks following the 
filing of the Chapter 11 petition.  These documents clearly show that Mr. Bankman-Fried was 
willing to consider any narrative, including wildly conflicting narratives, that could potentially 
save him from this day of reckoning.  On the one hand, he considered a “blame the lawyers and 
restructuring professionals” strategy: 
 “Focus almost exclusively on the fact that we could give value back to customers 
and the Chapter 11 team is destroying it” (Bankman-Fried Sentencing 
Memorandum, Ex. C, at 2.) 
 “Radical honesty on Twitter–just explain exactly what happened, in detail  
a) Include gory details, both about what happened, and about the lawyer fuckups 
afterwards” (Id.) 
 “Go strong with a message of ‘I have funding ready to make customers whole, if 
only the Chapter 11 team would care about customers’” (Id.) 
 “Go with the ‘the lawyers were in a shitty situation and I really feel bad about 
that; and like most people do, they reacted poorly to difficult circumstances’” (Id.) 
 “Focus almost exclusively on the fact that we could give value back to customers 
and the Chapter 11 team is destroying it” (Id.) 
 “Focus on the fact that the Chapter 11 team has no idea how to run FTX, it’s 
colonial, run by a cartel of lawyers” (Id.) 
  “Enemies:…John Ray” (Id. Ex. D, at 2-3) 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 415   Filed 03/20/24   Page 7 of 8


--- PAGE 8 ---

  
 
 
 -7- 
 
Yet, in the very same document, he also considered the exact opposite approach: 
 “Go strong with the message I’m really glad the Chapter 11 team has stepped in, 
they’re great, and even better I have funding that can help make customers more 
whole while the Chapter 11 team does what is needed to clean things up.”  (Id. 
Ex. C, at 2.) 
  We all now know that Mr. Bankman-Fried chose to blame it on the Chapter 11 
team.  Certain members of academia and other persons, in an effort to support Mr. Bankman-
Fried, have repeated these false narratives to elevate Mr. Bankman-Fried’s standing before this 
Court and in the public at the expense of victims and dedicated professionals who have tirelessly 
worked to rectify the harm caused.  Rather than embrace those who have been charged with 
cleaning up his mess, in the weeks following the petitions, Mr. Bankman-Fried actively worked 
to hinder the preservation of assets by, for example, transferring assets to The Bahamas as part of 
his self-professed strategy to win a battle to deprive the Bankruptcy Court of jurisdiction and by 
requesting reinstatement of his credentials to access the FTX systems.  This is in stark contrast to 
the often repeated theme that if only we would have engaged with Mr. Bankman-Fried, the 
creditors would have been better off.  Only by cutting off Mr. Bankman-Fried was the Chapter 
11 team able to stop the bleeding.  Of this, I have no doubt. 
The restructuring professionals worked tirelessly in the months following the 
collapse to institute governance, controls and to preserve and protect assets.  I can clearly reflect 
on that time and I am quite confident that but for the work of a very large team of dedicated 
individuals, billions of dollars would have been lost or stolen and the recoveries to customers 
would be a fraction of their expected recovery.  I make this statement not to curry sympathy or 
thanks, but to accurately report on the reasons why the FTX debtors may soon be in a position to 
compensate victims for some of the losses caused by Mr. Bankman-Fried.   
There should be no delusion that because assets have increased in value or that the 
professionals have been able to recover funds and assets taken or stolen from the estate, that 
there was no need for the Chapter 11 cases.  It is because of the Chapter 11 cases that we had 
assets which could rebound in value, and the court process that allowed the estate to chase 
wrongdoers that now enables the distribution of monies to customers.  And make no mistake; 
customers, non-governmental creditors, governmental creditors, and non-insider stockholders 
have suffered and continue to suffer.          
       Respectfully yours, 
  
 
       John J. Ray III 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 415   Filed 03/20/24   Page 8 of 8