

--- PAGE 1 ---

[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              March 18, 2024 
 
BY ECF 
 
Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Judge  
Daniel Patrick Moynihan  
United States Courthouse  
500 Pearl Street 
New York, NY 10007-1312 
 
Re:  United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S5 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan: 
 
  The Government write s to respectfully request permission to apply narrowly tailored 
redactions to certain victim impact statements , pursuant to the Crimes Victims’ Rights Act (the 
“CVRA”), 18 U.S.C. § 3771, the Attorney General Guidelines for Victim and Witness Assistance 
(the “AG Guidelines”) , and prevailing case law . The proposed redactions consist of a limited 
category of information, including an individual  victim’s name, and where applicable,  phone 
number, mailing and email addresses, and FTX account identification number. 
 
The CVRA sets forth the rights of crime victims. Among those rights  is the “right to be 
treated with fairness and respect for the victim’s dignity and privacy.” See 18 U.S.C. § 3771(a)(8). 
The CVRA authorizes the attorney for the government as well as the victim to  enforce the rights 
granted under it. 18 U.S.C. § 3771(d)(1).  As relevant, t he AG Guidelines establish guidelines to 
be followed by officers and employees of the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) with respect to 
the treatment of victims of a nd witnesses to crime. See AG Guidelines 2022 Edition (Eff. March 
31, 2023).  In order to “protect the dignity and privacy interests of victims,” the AG Guidelines 
direct DOJ personnel to “exercise particular care to safeguard victim impact statements ,” and to 
the extent appropriate and legally permissible, “use redaction or other options to avoid public filing 
of [personal identifying information] and other sensitive information contained in those 
statements.”  Articles II.D.1, V.J.3. 
 
Even in highly publicized cases such as this, courts have held that the minimal redactions 
proposed herein (i.e., name, phone number, mail/email address, and account identification number) 
strike an appropriate balance between the public’s right to access judicial documents, see Nixon v. 
Warner Commc’ns, Inc. , 435 U.S. 589 (1978), and a victim’s right to privacy, 18 U.S.C. § 
3771(a)(8).  See United States v. Belfort, No. 98 Cr. 859 (JG), 2014 WL 2612508, at *3 (E.D.N.Y. 
June 11, 2014) (denying press motion to obtain names of t he victims of Jordan Belfor t’s crimes 
and the amount of restitution owed to each victim, and observing that, while the “number of victims 
 
 
 
The Silvio J. Mollo Building 
              One Saint Andrew’s Plaza 
              New York, New York 10007 
 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 411   Filed 03/18/24   Page 1 of 2


--- PAGE 2 ---

 Page 2 
 
 
and total amount they lost played an important role in . . .[the sentencing determination] ,” the 
“specific names and addresses of individual victims did not,” and therefore, this information is 
entitled to less weight when balanced against the “the victims’ privacy”) .   Like  in Belfort, the 
presumption of public access to the specific names and personal identifying inform ation of 
individual victims is outweighed by the victims’ individual privacy rights —particularly, where 
their statements about how the defendant’s crimes impacted them are  made public , which 
statements contain the most relevant information pertaining to the defendant’s sentencing.  In other 
words, the value to the public of particular names and other identifying information of the 
individuals who submitted victim impact statements —as opposed to the content of the 
statements—is minimal, whereas the risk of intrusion and even danger to victims that would be 
posed by publicizing their personal information in a case that has received the level and type of 
scrutiny that this case has (as well as the risk of a chilling effect on other victims coming forward 
in this and other cases) is significant. 
 
Accordingly, the Government respectfully requests permission to apply narrowly tailored 
redactions to individual victim impact statements, which anonymizes victim names and personal 
identifying information.
1   
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
            DAMIAN WILLIAMS 
            United States Attorney 
             
           by:  /s/           
                      Nicolas Roos  
Danielle R. Sassoon  
            Samuel Raymond 
            Thane Rehn  
            Danielle Kudla          
            Assistant United States Attorneys 
            (212) 637-2421 
 
 
Cc:  Defense Counsel (by ECF) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1  Accompanying this letter request, th e Government has attached two sets of victim impact 
statements as Exhibits A and B.  Exhibit A contains victim impact statements on behalf of 
corporate entities , which do not contain any redactions.  Exhibit B contains individual victim 
impact statements, which contain limited redactions consistent with the requests herein.   
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 411   Filed 03/18/24   Page 2 of 2
