

--- PAGE 1 ---

[Type text] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
              February 6, 2024 
 
BY ECF 
 
Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Judge  
Daniel Patrick Moynihan  
United States Courthouse  
500 Pearl Street 
New York, NY 10007-1312 
 
Re:  United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S5 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
Dear Judge Kaplan: 
 
The Government writes to request that the Court conduct a hearing pursuant to United 
States v. Curcio, 680 F.2d 881 (2d Cir. 1982), concerning potential conflicts of interest that could 
arise from defense counsel’s representation of a defendant in a separate criminal matter.  I n 
particular, Marc Mukasey and Torrey Young, who filed notices of appearance on behalf of the 
defendant on January 9, 2024, also represent Alex Mashinsky, a defendant in United States v. 
Mashinsky, 23 Cr. 347 (JGK). Because there is a possibility that a conflict of interest could arise 
in either case, the Government is seeking Curcio hearings in both matters so that the defendants 
may knowingly waive any conflict that could arise.  
 
A.   Applicable Law      
 
A defendant has a right under the Sixth Amendment  to conflict-free legal representation.  
United States v. Levy, 25 F.3d 146, 152 (2d Cir. 1994). District courts have two separate obligations 
where there is a possible conflict of interest. First, when a court is aware of the possibility of an 
attorney’s conflict of interest, it has a threshold obligation to “investigate the facts and details of 
the attorney’s interests to determine whether the attorney in fact suffers from an actual conflict, a 
potential conflict, or no genuine conflict at all.” Id. at 153; see also United States v. Kliti, 156 F.3d 
150, 153 (2d Cir. 1998).  As the Second Circuit has explained: 
  
The trial court has an obligation to inquire into the facts and circumstances of an 
attorney’s interests either in response to a timely conflict o f interest objection or 
when it knows or reasonably should know of the possibility of a conflict of interest.  
Failure to engage in such an inquiry, when it is required, results in an automatic 
reversal.  An inquiry allows the trial judge to determine the precise nature of the 
conflict and how to proceed, i.e. , whether to disqualify counsel, obtain a waiver 
from the defendant pursuant to Curcio, or take no action. 
 
 
 
The Jacob K. Javits Federal Building 
              26 Federal Plaza 
              New York, New York 10278 
 
U.S. Department of Justice 
 
United States Attorney 
Southern District of New York 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 397   Filed 02/06/24   Page 1 of 7


--- PAGE 2 ---

 Page 2 
 
 
United States  v. Stantini, 85 F.3d 9, 13 (2d Cir. 1996) (citations and internal quotation marks 
omitted). Second, if the court determines that defense counsel has an actual or potential conflict of 
interest, the court has a “‘disqualification/waiver’ obligation” to determine whether the conflict is 
so severe as to obligate the Court to disqualify the attorney or a lesser conflict that can be waived 
in a Curcio hearing.  Kliti, 156 F.3d at 153; Levy, 25 F.3d at 153.   
 
  An actual conflict exists “when the attorney’s and the defendant’s interests diverge with 
respect to a material factual or legal issue or to a course of action, or when the attorney’s 
representation of the defendant is impaired by loyalty owed to a prior client.” Uni ted States v. 
Jones, 381 F.3d 114, 119 (2d Cir. 2004) (citations and internal quotation marks omitted). To show 
divergent interests, “[s]peculation is not enough.” Triana v. United States, 205 F.3d 36, 42 (2d Cir. 
2000), nor is a “mere theoretical division  of loyalties.” Mickens v. Taylor , 535 U.S. 162, 171 
(2002). A potential conflict of interest, by contrast, occurs when  “the interests of the defendant 
may place the attorney under inconsistent duties at some time in the future.” United States v. Perez, 
325 F.3d 115, 125 (2d Cir. 2003) (quoting Kliti, 156 F.3d at 153 n.3) (internal quotation marks 
omitted).   
 
Once the court has determined that an actual or potential conflict exists, it must determine 
whether the conflict is waivable. Levy, 25 F.3d at 153. Because the Sixth Amendment guarantees 
not only the right to an attorney of undivided loyalty but also, with certain exceptions, to an 
attorney of one’s own choosing, where those rights conflict the determination of which right is to 
take precedence must generally be left to the defendant, who may make a knowing and intelligent 
waiver of his right to a conflict -free lawyer if he desires to continue the representation. United 
States v. Cain, 671 F.3d 271, 293 (2d Cir. 2012)  (citing Curcio, 694 F.2d at 24-25). Nonetheless, 
because the Court has “an independent interest in ensuring that criminal trials are conducted within 
the ethical standards of the profession and that legal proceedings appear fair to all who observe 
them,” Wheat v. United States, 486 U.S. 153, 160 (1988), “there exists a narrow class of so-called 
per se conflicts that are not susceptible to waiver.”  Cain, 671 F.3d at 293. 
 
Conflicts “such as an attorney’s representation of two or more defendants . . . are generally 
waivable.” Id. at 127 (cit ation omitted). “Although such a conflict might require a defendant to 
abandon a particular defense or line of questioning, he can be advised as to what he must forgo; 
he ‘can then seek the legal advice of independent counsel and make an informed judgment that 
balances the alteration in the trial strategy against the perceived effect of having to get a new and 
perhaps less effective defense counsel.’” Id . (quoting Fulton, 5 F.3d at 613). “In the multiple 
representation situation, the defendant ‘can be advised by independent counsel of the dangers’ of 
such matters as ‘one defendant’s cooperating with the government,’ and make a knowing and 
intelligent decision that he wishes to continue to be represented by his attorney despite the 
attorney’s representation of another accused.”  Id. (quoting Fulton, 5 F.3d at 613). 
 
If a court determines that there exists a conflict that does not require disqualification, it 
“must conduct a Curcio  hearing to determine whether the defendant will knowingly and 
intelligently waive his right to conflict-free representation.” Kliti, 156 F.3d at 153; see also Levy, 
25 F.3d at 153. The Second Circuit has set forth the requirements for such a Curcio  hearing as 
follows: 
 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 397   Filed 02/06/24   Page 2 of 7


--- PAGE 3 ---

 Page 3 
 
 
At such a hearing, the trial court (1) advises the defendant of hi s right to 
representation by an attorney who has no conflict of interest, (2) instructs the 
defendant as to the dangers arising from particular conflicts, (3) permits the 
defendant to confer with his chosen counsel, (4) encourages the defendant to seek 
advice from independent counsel, (5) allows a reasonable time for the defendant to 
make a decision, and (6) determines, preferably by means of questions that are 
likely to be answered in narrative form, whether the defendant understands the risk 
of representation by his present counsel and freely chooses to run them. 
 
Perez, 325 F.3d at 119. 
 
B.   Discussion     
 
Mr. Mukasey’s and Ms. Young’s representation of defendants Bankman- Fried and 
Mashinsky in separate cases creates a potential conflict of interest; this potential conflict of 
interest, however, is waivable.  
 
As background, Mashinsky was the cofounder and f ormer CEO of Celsius Network LLC 
and its related entities (collectively, “Celsius”), a now-bankrupt cryptocurrency lending platform. 
As the trial evidence in this matter established, Celsius lent money to Alameda Research, and 
certain loans were repaid by Alameda Research to Celsius using customer funds. The relationship 
between Alameda Research and Celsius creates the potential for conflicts in several respects.  
 
First, Celsius’s status as a victim of the fraud on Alameda Research’s lenders may create a 
conflict in the simultaneous representation of Bankman- Fried (the owner of Alameda Research) 
and Mashinsky (the former CEO of Celsius). At Bankman-Fried’s trial, the Government presented 
evidence that Alameda Research was borrowing money from Celsius, that Celsius asked for loans 
to be returned, and that Alameda Research ultimately repaid certain Celsius loans with customer 
money. (Trial Tr. at 817 -18, 1771.) In summations, the Government argued to the jury that the 
defendant had conspired to defraud Alameda  Research’s lenders, while the defendant at various 
times during the trial disputed the fraud. At sentencing, the Government will argue that Alameda 
Research’s lenders, including Celsius, were victims of the fraud, and that lenders are entitled to 
restitution. This has the potential to create a conflict in the representation of Bankman- Fried and 
Mashinsky. Bankman-Fried may wish to argue at sentencing or in the event of an appeal that 
Celsius and similar lenders were not defrauded and are not entitled to restitution. Celsius, and 
potentially Mashinsky, may take a contrary position. Indeed, in a separate court proceeding, 
Mashinsky has argued that Celsius did not know that Alameda Research was a “risky 
counterparty.” Def. Mem. of Law in Support of Motion to D ismiss Complaint, People v. Alex 
Mashinsky, Index No. 450040/2023 (N.Y. Cty May 2, 2023), https://shorturl.at/kyDJ9. In short, 
defense counsel’s clients may be incentivized to take different, conflicting positions on Celsius’s 
victim status, due diligence, and entitlement to restitution, creating a potential conflict of interest 
for the attorneys.  
 
Second, it appears that Mashinsky has blamed Celsius’s collapse, at least in part, on actions 
taken by Alameda Research, possibly at Bankman- Fried’s direction, to short CEL, the native 
cryptocurrency token issued by Celsius. Some of the public reporting on this  topic has suggested 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 397   Filed 02/06/24   Page 3 of 7


--- PAGE 4 ---

 Page 4 
 
 
that Mashinsky claimed that Alameda Research used its unique, secret ability to borrow unlimited 
funds to borrow CEL on FTX, flooding the market and pushing down the price of CEL. See The 
Block, Celsius’s Alex Mashinsky Responds to New York State Lawsuit Blaming Him for the Crypto 
Lender’s Collapse (May 3, 2023), https://www.theblock.co/post/229211/alex-mashinsky-celsius-
nys-lawsuit-defense. This allegation creates the potential for a conflict of interest. If true, while 
Mashinsky’s allegations could possibly aid in his own defense, in Bankman- Fried’s case 
Bankman-Fried’s alleged manipulation of CEL could be additional relevant conduct that the Court 
could consider at Bankman- Fried’s sentencing. Thus , counsel could have an incentive in the 
Mashinsky case to develop evidence of Alameda Research shorting CEL and to air those facts  in 
the litigation, while the same counsel may have an incentive to minimize or refute such allegations 
in the Bankman-Fried case.  
 
Third, in this case, defense counsel has gained access to millions of records pursuant to a 
protective order, which will limit defense counsel’s use and disclosure of that information. That 
too creates the potential for conflict. If defense counsel views something in the Bankman- Fried 
materials that they believe may be useful to Mashinsky, they will be limited in their ability to share 
that information with Mashinsky or use it in Mashinsky’s defense. Thus, defense counsel’s mere 
agreement to be subjected to a protective order creates the potential for a  conflict of interest 
between their two clients.   
 
Finally, we understand that, prior to Celsius’s bankruptcy, Bankman-Fried had discussions 
with Celsius executives about the financial condition of Celsius and the prospect of FTX 
purchasing Celsius and Ba nkman-Fried replacing Mashinsky as CEO. Bankman- Fried’s 
involvement at this stage of Celsius’s history could cause him to have information that is relevant 
to the defense of Mashinsky, but that defense counsel is not authorized to share with Mashinsky. 
 
That said, these potential conflicts are not so “severe” that “no rational defendant would 
knowingly and intelligently desire the conflicted lawyer’s representation.” Levy, 25 F.3d at 153. 
And such conflicts, to the extent they manifest, “ are generally waivable” or can be dealt with 
through the appointment of additional counsel. Id.  at 127. Here, Bankman- Fried already has 
conflict-free trial counsel that could advise him on issues relating to Celsius and Mashinsky.  
Nonetheless, to ensure the integrity of the proceeding and guard against the risk that the defendant 
may, in the future, complain about the conflict , the defendant must “knowingly and intelligently 
waive his right to conflict-free representation” to proceed with this representation.  Kliti, 156 F.3d 
at 153.  
 
Therefore, the Government respectfully requests that the Court schedule a Curcio hearing 
to review the potential conflicts of interest with Bankman-Fried, and to confirm that he knowingly 
waives any such conflict.  The Government has conferred with Mr. Mukasey and Ms. Young, who 
have agreed to the scheduling of a Curcio hearing. For the convenience of the Court, the 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 397   Filed 02/06/24   Page 4 of 7


--- PAGE 5 ---

 Page 5 
 
 
Government is attaching a set of proposed questions to be put to the defendant as part of the Curcio 
inquiry. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
            DAMIAN WILLIAMS 
            United States Attorney 
             
           by:  /s/ Nicolas Roos          
                   Nicolas Roos 
Danielle R. Sassoon  
            Samuel Raymond 
            Thane Rehn 
            Danielle Kudla          
            Assistant United States Attorneys 
            (212) 637-2421 
 
cc: Defense Counsel (by ECF) 
 
 
  
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 397   Filed 02/06/24   Page 5 of 7


--- PAGE 6 ---

 Page 6 
 
 
Proposed Curcio Examination 
United States v. Bankman-Fried, S5 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
 
A.   Introductory Questions To Establish Competence 
 
 Age 
 
 Education 
 
 Current medications 
 
 Alcohol, drugs, medications within past 24 hours 
 
 Is anything interfering with your ability to understand what is happening here today? 
 
B. Potential Conf lict of Interest Posed by the Representation 
 
1. Are you satisfied with the services of Mr. Mukasey and Ms. Young thus far in the 
case? 
 
2. Have Mr. Mukasey and Ms. Young informed you that their firm represents Alex 
Mashinsky in connection with a prosecution in this district for conduct that may 
involve you as well? 
 
3. How long have you been aware of this issue?  How much time have you spent 
discussing this issue with them?  Have you discussed this issue with your trial 
counsel, Mr. Everdell and Mr. Cohen?    
 
4. Do you understand that the fact that Mukasey and Young simultaneously 
represent Mr. Mashinsky may mean that, in some cases, they may be required to 
put his interests before yours?  
 
5. Specifically, do you understand that Mr. Mukasey and Ms. Young may be 
required to forgo sentencing arguments that may be favorable to you because of 
their duty of loyalty to Mr. Mashinsky? 
 
6. Do you understand that there may be ways in which Mukasey and Young’s 
representation of you will be impaired by their office’s representation of Mr. 
Mashinsky that are not currently foreseeable? 
 
7. Do you understand that the potential conflict has existed since Mr. Mukasey and 
Ms. Young began representing you?  
 
8. Tell me in your own words what your understanding is of the potential conflicts of 
interest arising in this situation.  
 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 397   Filed 02/06/24   Page 6 of 7


--- PAGE 7 ---

 Page 7 
 
 
C.  The Right To Conflict-Free Representation 
 
8. Do you understand that, in every criminal case, including this one, the defendant 
is entitled to assistance of counsel whose loyalty to him is undivided, who is not 
subject to any factor that might in any way intrude upon an attorney’s loyalty to 
his interests?  In other words, do you understand that you are entitled to attorneys 
who have only your interests in mind, and not the interests of any other client? 
 
9. Have you received any inducements, promises or threats with regard to your 
choice of counsel in this case? 
 
10. Have you consulted with any attorneys other than Mr. Mukasey and Ms. Young 
about the dangers to you of this potential conflict of interest? 
 
11. Do you understand that you have a right to consult with an attorney free from any 
conflict of interest about this issue, and that the Court will give you an 
opportunity to do that if there is any aspect of the information that I have 
conveyed to you today that you wish to discuss with a conflict-free attorney? 
 
12. Have you consulted with independent counsel about the conflict or potential 
conflict of interest that I have described to you today?  Has counsel fully advised 
you about the situation?  Do you wish to receive additional time to consult with 
independent counsel? 
 
D.  Continuation of Curcio Hearing 
 
13. After considering all that I have said today about the ways in which Mr. Mukasey 
and Ms. Young’s representation of Mr. Mashinsky may adversely affect your 
defense, do you believe that it is in your best interest to continue with them as your 
attorneys?  Is that your wish?   
 
14. Do you understand that by choosing to continue with Mr. Mukasey and Ms. Young 
as your attorneys, you are waiving your right to be represented solely by an attorney 
who has no potential conflict of interest? 
 
15. Are you knowingly and voluntarily waiving your right to conflict -free 
representation? 
 
16. Do you waive any post-conviction argument, on appeal or otherwise, that by virtue 
of Mr. Mukasey and Ms. Young’s representation of Mr. Mashinsky, you were 
denied effective assistance of counsel by Mr. Mukasey and Ms. Young? 
 
17. Is there anything that I have said that you wish to have explained further? 
 
Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK   Document 397   Filed 02/06/24   Page 7 of 7