

--- PAGE 1 ---

  
 
 
Mark S. Cohen 
+1 (212) 957-7600 
mcohen@cohengresser.com 
 
 
Christian R. Everdell 
+1 (212) 957-7600 
ceverdell@cohengresser.com 
 
October 10, 2023 
VIA ECF 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
United States Courthouse 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
 
Re:  United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S6 22 Cr. 673 (LAK)  
Dear Judge Kaplan: 
Per the Court’s directive that a response be filed this evening, we respectfully submit this 
letter on behalf of our client, Samuel Bankman-Fried, in response to the Government’s letter 
motion seeking to exclude evidence or argument concerning the current value of Mr. Bankman-
Fried’s investment in Anthropic, a company whose value has appreciated substantially since the 
investment was made.  ECF No. 315.   
Separate and apart from the Government’s motion, the defense should be allowed to elicit 
testimony from Ms. Ellison about the portfolio nature of venture-capital investing, namely that 
successful venture-capital investing turns on returns from a relatively small number of successful 
investments offsetting other investments that may not have earned a return or have not done so 
within a certain timeframe.  Here, the significant appreciation in Anthropic since last year 
reflects this important context and is relevant to testimony that the Government has elicited from 
Ms. Ellison concerning expected value analyses.  
In its letter motion, the Government, however, seeks to exclude evidence of Anthropic’s 
current value based on the claim that such evidence could only be relevant to argument that 
alleged victims may be made whole through FTX’s and Alameda’s bankruptcies.  The 
Government’s position miscasts the relevance of the evidence.  Evidence of the current value of 
the Anthropic investment is squarely relevant to rebutting the Government’s opening statement 
and testimony to date, as well as Mr. Bankman-Fried’s good-faith.    
The Government has repeatedly raised Alameda’s venture investments during the trial, 
including in its opening statement, where the Government argued that Alameda’s and 
Mr. Bankman-Fried’s investments were, among other things, “risky” and “losing money.”  See 
2023-10-04 Trial Tr. 34:19-21 (Gov’t Opening).  In response, the defense should be permitted to 


--- PAGE 2 ---

 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
October 10, 2023 
Page 2 
 
  
introduce evidence of positive investment outcomes (i.e. Anthropic) of such venture investments 
to rebut evidence and argument from the Government that Alameda’s venture-capital investment 
strategy was wasteful or reckless.  Moreover, to the extent that the Government contends that 
Mr. Bankman-Fried made ill-informed or misguided investment decisions to argue that 
Mr. Bankman-Fried had a tendency toward reckless decisions, the current value of the Anthropic 
shares and potentially other investments is relevant to rebutting those claims.   
To the extent the Court has concerns that evidence concerning Anthropic’s current value 
may improperly suggest that customers, lenders, and investors would be repaid, the defense has 
no objection to the Court providing an appropriate limiting instruction.  Accordingly, 
Mr. Bankman-Fried respectfully asks the Court to deny the Government’s motion to preclude 
evidence of the current value of Mr. Bankman-Fried investment in Anthropic.  
 
Respectfully submitted,  
  
    /s/ David Lisner          . 
Mark S. Cohen 
Christian R. Everdell 
S. Gale Dick 
David F. Lisner 
COHEN & GRESSER LLP 
800 Third Avenue, 21st Floor 
New York, New York  10022 
(212) 957-7600 
mcohen@cohengresser.com 
ceverdell@cohengresser.com 
sgdick@cohengresser.com 
dlisner@cohengresser.com 
cc: All counsel of record (via ECF) 
 
 