

--- PAGE 1 ---

Case 1:22-cr-00673-LAK Document 306 Filed 10/02/23 Page 1 of 5 
GG COHEN & GRESSER LLP 
Mark S. Co hen 
+ 1 (212) 957-7600 
mcohen@cohengresser.com 
MEMO ENDORSED 
Christian R. Everdell 
+ 1 (212) 957-7600 
ceverdell@cohengresser.com 
VIAECF 
The Honorable Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Court 
Southern District of New York 
United States Courthouse 
500 Pearl Street 
New York, New York 10007 
October 2, 2023 
Re: United States v. Samuel Bankman-Fried, S5 22 Cr. 673 (LAK) 
Dear Judge Kaplan: 
800 Third Avenue 
New York. NY 10022 
+ 1 212 957 7 600 phone 
www.cohengresser.com 
On behalf of our client, Samuel Bankman-Fried, we write to respectfully request 
clarification and reconsideration regarding certain portions of the Court's ruling on the parties' 
motions in limine, ECF No. 289. In particular , as discussed further below, we seek clarification 
as to (1) the Court's grant of the Government 's request to preclude argument concerning whether 
FTX was regulated within the United States and FTX.US's compliance with applicable rules, 
ECF No. 289 at ,r 15; (2) the Court's grant of the Government's request to preclude Mr. 
Bankman-Fried from offering evidence concerning recovery of assets in the FTX bankruptcy 
proceeding, id. ,r 16; (3) the Court's grant of the Government ' s request to preclude evidence 
concerning Mr. Bankman-Fried 's prior good acts, including charitable giving and philanthropy , 
to disprove his guilt of the crimes charged , id. ,r 11; and ( 4) the Court's grant of the 
Government 's request to admit evidence concerning the alleged illegal campaign finance 
scheme, id. ,r 2. 
1. Ruling as to Argument Concerning Whether FTXwas Regulated in the United States and 
FTX US 's Compliance with Applicable Rules 
The Court granted the Government 's request to preclude Mr. Bankman-Fried from 
arguing that "he is not guilty because FTX was not regulated in the United States and he 
followed the rules with respect to FTX US," on the basis that the "Defendant has not opposed 
this request[.]" ECF No. 289 at ,r 15. However, we respectfully note that Mr. Bankman-Fried 
opposed the Government's request in his Memorandum of Law in Opposition to the 
Government 's Motions in Limine ("Opposition Brief '), ECF No. 246, at 23-24. 
Specifically, Mr. Bankman-Fried argued: 


--- PAGE 2 ---

Memorandum Endorsement United States v. Bankman-Fried, 22-cr-0673 (LAK) 
Defendant moves for clarification and reconsideration (Dkt 306) regarding portions of the 
Court's ruling on the parties' motions in limine. The motion is disposed of as follows, the numbered 
sections of this endorsement corresponding to those of the defendant's motion. 
1. Reconsideration is granted. On reconsideration, the Court adheres to its ruling on 
the prior motion (Dkt 289, 1 15) substantially for the reasons argued by the government in opposition to 
the defendant's present motion (Dkt 312, 1 I). Among other things , the fact, assuming it to be so, that 
cryptocurrency exchanges or the cryptocurrency industry in particular are, in a general sense, unregulated 
in the United States, at least in the same ways as some other financial services industries such as securities 
exchanges , commodities exchanges, investment advisors , and so on, is irrelevant. Defendant is being 
prosecuted here for alleged violations of U.S. statutes of general application to all persons and entities the 
conduct of which comes within the reach of U.S. law, including, for example, wire fraud and conspiracy 
to violate other applicable statutes. Among other things, he allegedly misappropriated for his own use 
money that was "entrusted to [his] care by another. " United States v. Altman, 48 F .3d 96, IO 1 (2d Cir. 
1995). Even were the evidence that defendant seeks to offer of some relevance, evidence of the lack of 
the sort of regulation to which defendant refers would be of minimal probative value and would be 
outweighed substantially by the likelihood of jury confusion , waste of time, and unfair prejudice to the 
even-handed application of laws of general application to the defendant 's alleged conduct. 
2. Reconsideration is denied. First, the defendant's reliance on footnote 7 of his 
opposition to the government's memorandum on the motion in limine is misplaced . Arguments raised only 
in footnotes (let alone arguments omitted from footnotes) are not properly raised and need not be addressed 
by the Court. See Fairfield Sentry Ltd. v. Citibank, N.A. 630 F. Supp.3d 463, 496 n.34 (S.D.N.Y . 2022) 
(citing cases). Second, as the Court already has held, " it is immaterial as a matter of law whether the 
defendant intended to repay [ or could have repaid] the misappropriated funds because the offense [ wa ]s 
complete where , as alleged here, there is an immediate intent to misapply and defraud." 
3. Reconsideration is granted but, on reconsideration, the Court adheres to its original 
ruling with this clarification: The government does not object to the defendant ' s proffer of admissible 
evidence regarding charitable or philanthropic efforts provided the evidence is presented for a proper 
purpose, as opposed to attempting to prove lack of a propensity to commit crime or good. Should 
controversy arise over particular questions , the Court then will rule as appropriate. 
4. Reconsideration is granted but, on reconsideration, the Court adheres to its original 
ruling. Moreover , and with respect, the defendant has misconstrued the Court's rulings . Properly 
construed , there is no inconsistency . 
In the event of a conviction , the Court reserves the right to expand upon its reasoning with 
respect to these rulings. 
Dated : 
SO ORDERED. 
October 11 , 2023 
Lewis A. Kaplan 
United States District Judge 