

--- PAGE 1 ---

Is S.B.F. Possibly…Innocent?The imprisoned FTX founder is now taking a three-pronged approach togetting out of jail—claiming that prosecutors threatened his partners, Sullivan& Cromwell had a conflict of interest, and his crypto exchange was actuallysolvent all along. Oh, and he’s also sucking up to Trump. Will any of it work?
Filing his own motion for a new trial is not the only thing Sam has been doing to try to get out of prison. Through a surrogate, he has become active on X again, and has made many of the same pointsthere that he made in his motion for a new trial. Photo: Yuki Iwamura/Bloomberg/Getty Images
WILLIAM D. COHAN March 1, 2026
He who represents himself, as Abraham Lincoln once may have said, has afool for a client. Will that apply to the notorious Sam Bankman-Fried, too? Inearly February, the disgraced crypto mogul drafted his own legal brief,presumably from his prison cell in San Pedro, California, requesting that the SouthernDistrict of New York grant him a new trial. He has also asked that Judge Lewis Kaplan“recuse himself” from a potential new trial because, Sam wrote, referring to himself inthe third person, of “the manifest prejudice he has demonstrated towards Mr. Bankman-Fried.” The brief is very well written, and also pretty damn convincing. I hope S.D.N.Y.grants him a new trial.Now, don’t confuse Sam’s request for a new trial with his still-pending appeal, before theSecond Circuit, of his November 2023 conviction on the seven counts on which he wasindicted. (He used a real lawyer, Alexandra Shapiro, for that.) In March 2024, Sam wassentenced to 25 years in federal prison. So, only 23 years left to go for Sam, unless hewins his appeal, is granted a new trial (and is then found not guilty), or somehow getsDonald Trump to pardon him. (And yes, Sam is trying that, too.) Safe to say, he has boththe time and the inclination to act as his own lawyer on this matter. And the price wasright.
We hope you areenjoying your article!
START 14 DAY FREE TRIAL
His request for a new trial rests heavily on his contention that FTX was actually solventwhen it filed for bankruptcy, and that Sullivan & Cromwell, which served as the debtor’scounsel in that bankruptcy, had a conflict of interest. “By the Debtors’ ownacknowledgment, they spent virtually all of their time in the first 90 days aiding theprosecution,” Sam wrote, “billing the Estate tens of millions of dollars for their efforts.”He says that John J. Ray III, who was named FTX C.E.O. in 2022 to manage itsbankruptcy, “credited Sullivan & Cromwell for SDNY’s success in indicting Bankman-Friedand securing guilty pleas from two of his co-founders in record time.”The total cost of FTX’s bankruptcy is now around $1 billion, with more than $952 millionin court-approved fees distributed to more than a dozen firms. But it’s all worked out forthe company’s customers, at least—or so Sam argues. Sam wrote that in May 2024, afterhis conviction and sentencing, the debtor “finally acknowledged” that “all customerdeposits” would be repaid at a recovery of between 119 percent and 143 percent of theirvalue on the date of the November 2022 bankruptcy filing. “They have now all beenrepaid.”
The Chapsky RevelationSam’s brief also lays out what he believes two former senior FTX executives—DanielChapsky and Ryan Salame—would have said at his federal trial had they not been toointimidated, by their own admission, to testify. Chapsky’s affidavit, filed as an exhibit toSam’s brief, is particularly compelling. As FTX’s head of data science, he was in charge ofthe company’s analytics database and regulatory reporting in a variety of jurisdictions.He did not do any work for Alameda, Sam’s hedge fund that siphoned off some $8 billionin FTX customer deposits and invested in hundreds of venture deals—includingAnthropic, which would have been an epic win had the estate held on to it longer.At Sam’s criminal trial, the government repeatedly relied on the expert testimony of PeterEaston, an accounting professor at Notre Dame who, Chapsky stated in the affidavit,“repeatedly claimed” that FTX was insolvent at the time of bankruptcy filing and had“irretrievably lost” customer funds. According to Sam’s filing, the prosecution repeatedlyhammered on the theme of FTX’s insolvency to the jury—that Sam “knows that there’sthis giant, massive, unrepayable hole”; that when he “said FTX had enough to cover allclient holdings, that was a lie”; that FTX “was 10 billion plus in the hole … totally underwater”; and that “customers were left with billions of dollars in losses.” And yet, Chapskysaid he was prepared to testify that FTX was solvent at the time.In his affidavit, Chapsky stated that, in January 2023, at the request of the debtor, hedid an “independent analysis” of FTX’s assets and liabilities as of the bankruptcy filingdate. His analysis showed that the international FTX exchange had $5.5 billion in liquidassets, $3.8 billion in “semi-liquid” assets, and a portfolio of more than 300 ventureinvestments, with a book value of about $4.6 billion. FTX US had some $360 million ofcash and liquid digital assets at the filing date, with “outstanding liabilities” to customerstotaling $200 million. “By any measure,” Chapsky wrote, “FTX US was solvent with asubstantial cash surplus.”While his analysis did show that the international FTX exchange had “a substantial(roughly $8 billion) liquidity shortfall” as of the filing date, “it was solvent—meaning thatit had enough assets to cover customers’ deposits. In my professional opinion, given thenature and value of the assets in FTX’s possession on November 11th, customers ofthese solvent entities could have been made whole within months—not years—had the
Join Puck to listen to this article
 AI Disclaimerx
SHARE


--- PAGE 2 ---

exchanges not been placed into omnibus bankruptcy proceedings and abruptly shutdown.”Chapsky wrote that Ray “arbitrarily” assigned “zero” value to Sam’s portfolio ofinvestments, as well as to the liquid and semi-liquid cryptocurrencies that FTX owned,and maintained that FTX was insolvent on the day it filed for bankruptcy—a “claim” later“laid to rest” by the FTX independent examiner’s report in September 2024. “In myopinion, this wholly incorrect impression colored public opinion about what hadhappened to FTX as well as the entire trial,” Chapsky argued, adding that the debtors“were prioritizing” Sam’s “prosecution and conviction” over “the interest of creditors.”Chapsky said he was planning to say as much at Sam’s trial after Sam’s legal team hadcontacted his counsel about him testifying. “I believed that testifying truthfully aboutFTX’s financial condition—regardless of which party called me—would serve creditors’best interests by ensuring the Court had accurate information,” he wrote. But his ownattorney, and other attorneys as well, “strongly advised me not to testify” for fear that hewould open himself to “media attacks” and “potential retaliatory actions” by prosecutors.Chapsky believes his “testimony could have refuted the errors in the prosecution’srepresentations about FTX’s financial condition and provided the jury with more accurateinformation.”
The Salame Witch HuntSam’s brief claims that Salame—the C.E.O. of FTX Digital Markets, FTX’s Bahamiansubsidiary—who pleaded guilty to two counts and was sentenced to more than sevenyears in prison, was also prepared to testify in his defense until the prosecutors put thesqueeze on him. According to Sam, and corroborated by Salame’s recent posts on X, thegovernment “put enormous pressure” on Salame to plead guilty to multiple charges andto testify against Sam. When Salame refused, the government threatened to indict hispregnant fiancée, the former Republican congressional candidate Michelle Bond, oncampaign finance charges.On the eve of Sam’s trial, Salame agreed to plead guilty to two charges, in exchange forprosecutors dropping the investigation into Bond. (In a legal filing, prosecutors deniedthat there was ever such a deal with Salame.) In the end, Salame was the only defendantwho refused to testify on behalf of the prosecution. “I finally capitulated to make surethose dearest to me would be unharmed and because I refused to tell lies they wantedme to,” Salame posted on X on January 1, 2026. (The prosecutors reneged on theiragreement with Salame, if there ever was one, and pursued a prosecution against Bond,who was indicted in August 2024. That trial picks up again on March 4.)Salame has said he wishes he had done more. “One of my (many) regrets is actuallyletting my lawyers scare me into not testifying in SBFs defense,” he wrote on August 15,2024. Months later, on TheTucker Carlson Show, he elaborated: “A lot of that stuff wasjust not accurate the way they were describing it. But no one got up to counter any ofthe government’s narrative, because then you get threatened with more time in prison. …I flirted with the idea of being on the defense for Sam. … I noted this to my lawyers andthe lawyers said, ‘You could face an extra 10 years for doing that. Do you really want to,sort of, risk that?’ … And so the bankruptcy lawyers in conjunction with the governmentkeep everyone silent.”In his brief, Sam wrote of Salame, “He paid dearly for his principles. He is now serving a7½-year sentence on two minor and baseless charges unrelated to the central allegedfraud at FTX—over three times the combined sentence of the cooperating witnesseswho adopted the Government’s narrative at trial.”
The Trump Pardon StripteaseFiling his own motion for a new trial is not the only thing Sam has been doing to try toget out of prison. Through a surrogate, he has become active on X again, and has mademany of the same points there that he made in his motion for a new trial. He also seemsto be trying to suck up big time to Trump, perhaps to try to get one of those pardonsthat the president seems to hand out like soda water.On January 29, he took to X to go to town on Joe Biden. “The Dems may control tradmedia,” he posted. “But they don’t control the truth.” He posted that he became aRepublican in 2022 and gave “tens of millions to Republicans” that year. He wrote that“Biden bungled crypto” when he chose Gary Gensler to be the chairman of theSecurities and Exchange Commission. Donald Trump, on the other hand, “is right oncrypto.” He also accused Biden of bungling Covid and of politicizing the JusticeDepartment. He called Trump’s decision to capture NicolásMaduro—who is currentlybeing held in the Metropolitan Detention Center, in Brooklyn, where Sam himself spentthe better part of a year—“smart, gutsy and pro-democracy.” You get the idea…Sam seems to be throwing three Hail Marys at the same time: hoping for his convictionto be thrown out by the Second Circuit, or that a non-Kaplan judge will grant him a newtrial in the Southern District of New York, or—the biggie—that maybe Trump will takematters into his own hands after he’s done bombing Iran. The first two legal strategiesseem spot-on to me. But the ick factor is very high with his unabashed appeal to Trumpfor a pardon, especially so when his appeal is relies on a claim that Sullivan & Cromwell,a law firm that has become very close to Trump, is responsible for Sam’s predicament.What happened to effective altruism, Sam?
WILLIAM D. COHAN•April 22, 2026The Great Train Bankruptcy WILLIAM D. COHAN•April 19, 2026The Wall Street Iran Bounce WILLIAM D. COHAN•April 15, 2026Ackman Family Values
Next on my reading list VIEW MY READING LIST
Start your free trial today and get accessto more stories and newsletters
START 14 DAY FREE TRIAL
Why Join Puck