

--- PAGE 1 ---

JUSTICE
Exclusive: Sam Bankman-Fried, Phoning the
Sun From Jail, Rebuﬀs ‘Center-Left’ Politics —
and Signals Sympathy With Trump 
The Sun is publishing 45 minutes of telephone interviews with the
FTX founder, the ﬁrst since he has been behind bars.
FTX chief executive officer Sam Bankman-Fried arrives for a bail hearing at
Manhattan Federal Court on August 11, 2023 at New York City. Michael M.
Santiago/Getty Images
A.R.
HOFFMAN
Published:
Feb. 20, 2025
07:14 AM ET
Updated:
Feb. 20, 2025
09:39 AM ET
Gift this
article
As Sam Bankman-Fried presses his appeal to the Second
United States Appeals Circuit and awaits a transfer to a
federal prison to continue his 25-year prison sentence, he’s
undergoing changes — reﬂecting on the “destructive” policies
of the Biden administration to which he steered millions,
resentful of what he feels was the courts’ failure to presume


--- PAGE 2 ---

him innocent, and somewhat startled at his own political
trajectory.
That’s some of the substance of what Mr. Bankman-Fried,
speaking on a telephone line from Brooklyn’s Metropolitan
Detention Center, tells The New York Sun in the only
published audio interviews Mr. Bankman-Fried has done
from jail. With corrections authorities listening in, he
accused Mr. Biden of engaging in “political censorship” and
“misinformation disguised as anti-misinformation.” 
Sam Bankman-Fried Speaks To The New York SSam Bankman-Fried Speaks To The New York S……
The founder of FTX, Sam Bankman-Fried, speaks on the telephone to the
associate editor of the Sun, A.R. Hoﬀman. February 18 and 19, 2025
Over the course of four separate abbreviated phone calls to
the Sun, he speaks in a contemplative tone that nevertheless
conveys conviction in the company he founded and lost, FTX.
Has Mr. Bankman-Fried had a political awakening, or is this a
tactical maneuver given that a pardon from President Trump
may be his last resort? While Mr. Bankman-Fried laments his
distance from the outside world, he appears to have his ﬁnger
on the pulse of an evolving political climate.  
The Sun interviewed Mr. Bankman-Fried thrice on Tuesday
evening and once on Wednesday. Prison rules limited each of
those conversations to a quarter of an hour, and mandated
that they be spaced an hour apart. The Sun is presenting the
full audio of those tapes, combined and edited for clarity,


--- PAGE 3 ---

below. If Icarus, who tried to ﬂy, could speak, this is how he
might sound, from beneath the waves, looking back up at the
sky. 
Mr. Bankman-Fried once managed tens of billions of dollars
of other people’s money. One of his biggest ﬁnancial
supporters once mused that he could become the planet’s ﬁrst
trillionaire. He amassed coins of all kinds. Celebrities and
politicians came for a sliver of the largesse of this crypto
Croesus, to borrow another analogy from the Greeks, who
understood something of tragic twists and turns. And of
hubris.   
Mr. Bankman-Fried is in prison after the implosion of his
empire and conviction in federal court on seven counts of
fraud and conspiracy. The Department of Justice asserts that
he “orchestrated one of the largest ﬁnancial frauds in history,
stealing over $8 billion of his customers’ money” and that
“his deliberate and ongoing lies demonstrated a brazen
disregard for customers’ expectations and disrespect for the
rule of law.”
The DOJ lead prosecutor, Danielle Sassoon, the erstwhile
acting United States Attorney for the Southern District of
New York, persuaded a jury at Manhattan that Mr. Bankman-
Fried “took FTX customer funds for his personal use, to make
investments and millions of dollars of political contributions
to candidates from both parties, and to repay billions of
dollars in loans owed by Alameda Research, a cryptocurrency
trading fund that Bankman-Fried also founded.”
Mr. Bankman-Fried, though, argues that the empire he built
has always had more assets than liabilities, and that it faced a
liquidity rather than a solvency crisis. That point is emerging
as a crucial point on Bankman-Fried’s appeal. He asserts that
the ﬁnancial health of FTX helps answer the question of
whether “fundamentally there was a theft” at all and


--- PAGE 4 ---

contends that he was not allowed to surface that argument at
trial.    
Mr. Bankman-Fried has appealed to the Second United States
Appeals Circuit. His lawyers argue in their appellate brief
that he “was never presumed innocent. He was presumed
guilty — before he was even charged. He was presumed guilty
by the media. He was presumed guilty by the FTX debtor
estate and its lawyers. He was presumed guilty by federal
prosecutors eager for quick headlines. And he was presumed
guilty by the judge.”
Now Mr. Bankman-Fried tells the Sun that his case is touched
by the same “prosecutorial abuse” and “politicization of the
DOJ” alleged on the campaign trail and from the Oval Oﬃce
by President Trump. Those echoes could be intentional —
since his case was a federal one, the 47th president has the
power to pardon Mr. Bankman-Fried, or commute his
sentence. He calls his sentence “a piece of the picture” in
respect of  the upheaval at DOJ.
He also shares, with Mr. Trump, an antagonistic relationship
with Judge Lewis Kaplan, who handed down a harsh sentence
to Mr. Bankman-Fried after ruling consistently against the
defense at trial. Mr. Trump resents  Judge Kaplan, whom he
calls “a bully,”  for his oversight of the lawsuits brought
against him by the sex and romance columnist E. Jean
Carroll. Mr. Bankman-Fried shares with the Sun that “I know
President Trump had a lot of frustrations with Judge Kaplan.
I certainly did as well.”
Mr. Bankman-Fried tells the Sun that he believes he has not
been given a “fair and balanced” pass through the legal
system and that the “story the jury was told” by Ms. Sassoon
and her oﬃce “was false.” He also asserts that political bias
was at work in the seven and a half year sentence handed
down to one of his FTX lieutenants, Ryan Salame. 


--- PAGE 5 ---

Mr. Salame, who pleaded guilty, was one of the few members
of the company whose politics leaned to the right. Mr.
Bankman-Fried’s other  co-defendants, including his ex-
girlfriend, Caroline Ellison, who ran Alameda Research also
pleaded guilty in exchange for lighter sentences. Ms. Ellison
testiﬁed against Mr. Bankman-Fried at trial, evidence that
some saw as particularly damaging.    
Mr. Bankman-Fried sketches for the Sun his own political
odyssey. In 2020, he was the second most generous donor to
Mr. Biden’s election campaign, trailing only Mayor
Bloomberg. He explains that his muniﬁcence to the future
46th president stemmed from “not wanting the Democratic
Party to become the party of Bernie Sanders.” Mr. Bankman-
Fried adds that he used to plant his political ﬂag on the
“center-left” but adds “that’s not how I view myself anymore.”
Mr. Bankman-Fried, turning to his bread and butter —
cryptocurrency — admits to being “frustrated and
disappointed” by the policies of the Biden administration. He
asserts that the “Republican party was far more reasonable”
in respect of regulating crypto currencies. Mr. Trump’s
nominee for the chairman of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Paul Atkins, has even suggested that regulation
rather than any perﬁdy on the part of Mr. Bankman-Fried is
responsible for FTX’s collapse.
While most of Mr. Bankman-Fried’s public donations have
ﬂowed to Democrats, he tells the Sun that before FTX
imploded “he had been giving to Republicans conservative
causes a lot more than had been public” and that he had
“been working with Republicans a lot more than had been
previously thought.”   
The Sun asked Mr. Bankman-Fried to annotate the so-called
“vibe shift” among the technology elite, epitomized by the
political prominence of the world’s richest man, Elon Musk,


--- PAGE 6 ---

and the warming of ties between the 47th president and the
founder of Meta, Mark Zuckerberg. 
Mr. Bankman-Fried allows that he “can’t speak for them” but
that he shares their diagnosis that the Biden administration
pursued “political censorship.” He admits he has grown more
sympathetic to Mr. Musk’s “chainsaw” approach toward
reform.
When the Sun asks Mr. Bankman-Fried what he makes of Mr.
Trump’s launching of his own “memecoin” days before his
Inauguration — it’s called “$Trump Coin” — he predicts that
“We’re going to see more and more avenues of life start to dip
their toes in, in part because it is a much more ﬂexible
medium to work it than traditional ﬁnance.” Mr. Trump has
made billions — at least on paper — from his meme coin.
Mr. Bankman-Fried relates that he ﬁnds the handling of
FTX’s bankruptcy by the law ﬁrm of Sullivan & Cromwell
“absolutely infuriating” and insists that “FTX was never
insolvent and it was never bankrupt. Neither was Alameda.
They always had enough to, to, to make good on all their
liabilities.” That argument — that ultimately there was
enough money to pay everyone back  —is central to Mr.
Bankman-Fried’s case on appeal  Sullivan & Cromwell
declined to comment to the Sun.  
Mr. Bankman-Fried laments that he “backed down from a
ﬁght” and allowed Sullivan & Cromwell — which is now
representing Mr. Trump in his appeal of his hush-money
conviction —  to take over FTX in November 2022. Mr.
Bankman-Fried, though, signed the paperwork installing
Sullivan & Cromwell and his successor as FTX’s chief
executive, John Ray.  The ﬁrm has made hundreds of millions
of dollars handling FTX, which it still represents.  
Lawyers for Mr. Bankman-Fried have argued that Sullivan &
Cromwell worked hand in glove with prosecutors to build the


--- PAGE 7 ---

Commenting is available to paying subscribers only. Comments are reviewed and, in some cases,
edited before posting. To be approved, comments must be civil, accurate, grammatically correct,
and substantive or newsworthy. Personal criticisms of individuals will not be published.
Join The New York Sun
Enter your email to read this
article.
Get 2 free articles when you subscribe.
Continue with Google
Continue with Facebook
or
Email address
Continue
Have an account? This is also a sign-in form.
By continuing you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service.
case against him — and torched the value of the assets held by
the exchange. The ﬁrm declined to comment. An examiner
appointed by the DOJ found no evidence of misconduct and
asserted knowledge of no “email or other document in which
S&C expressly disclosed a crime to prosecutors or regulators”
before charges were handed up. 
Mr. Bankman-Fried is contemplative about his fall in
fortunes. He relates that notwithstanding the nearly limitless
wealth he once commanded, his annual salary amounted to
something like “$200,000” a year. When asked what he
missed most about life outside of jail, he names the
possibility  to “have a positive impact on the world” and “the
ability to Google things.”   


--- PAGE 8 ---

A Andrew 1 hour ago 
What Mr. Bankman-Fried said actually makes sense (thanks for a great article
Mr. Hoﬀman) but I can’t help suspecting he wouldn’t turn down a pardon.
What would a Trump pardon look like to us all?
MORE FROM THE NEW YORK SUN
Brandon Bell/pool via AP
Are DOGE Dividend Checks
Coming?
AP/Abdel Kareem Hana
Bodies of Bibas Family and 84-year-
old Israeli Man Released From Gaza
in Sickening Terror Propaganda
Show
AP/J. Scott Applewhite
Senate Republicans Vow To Move
Forward With Their Own Budget
After Trump Derides Lindsey
Graham’s Plan
Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images
Judge Tables Decision on Whether To
Dismiss Charges Against New York
Mayor as Requested by Trump


--- PAGE 9 ---

Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images
Exclusive: Sam Bankman-Fried,
Phoning the Sun From Jail, Rebuﬀs
‘Center-Left’ Politics —  and Signals
Sympathy With Trump 
(AP Photo, File)
From Murdered White Farmers to
‘Racially Disfavored Landowners’:
Why Trump and Musk Are Targeting
South Africa
Greg Fiume/Getty Images
As Massage Therapists Line Up
Against Justin Tucker, Ravens Eye
Kicking Prospects at NFL Combine
AP/Seth Wenig
Trump Takes the Subway