

--- PAGE 1 ---

❖  B AC KGROU ND  ❖
  1. In 2017, 25 -year-old Sam B ankman-Fried (SB F) co-founded a hedge 
fund called Alameda Research that traded in crypto. In 2019 , SB F co-
founded a crypto exchange —  a platform for bringing together buyers 
and sellers of crypto —  called FTX . In 2021, he handed over the 
running of Alameda to his sometime-girlfriend C aroline E llison and her 
co-C E O, although he continued to own 9 0% of Alameda.
  2. Alameda was one of the hedge funds that traded on FTX  and provided 
the exchange with liquidity. FTX  was a margin exchange —  it allowed 
customers to trade with funds borrowed from other customers.
  3. W ithin three years of its founding, FTX  had grown to become the 
world’s second-largest crypto exchange. It was valued at $ 32 billion.
  4. In November 2022, an Alameda balance sheet leaked by an unidentified 
source and a tweet from rival crypto exchange B inance cast doubt on the 
SB F’s Side of the Story
Sam B ankman-Fried is serving 25  years for allegedly defrauding FTX  customers 
of $ 8  billion. B ut now that they’re being repaid with interest, the question arises: 
W as guilt really proven beyond reasonable doubt? Or was the truth buried by a 
media frenzy, conflicted bankruptcy lawyers, and a political war on crypto?
I knew little about SB F before his trial. B ut after 1,000 hours of research, I found 
a story far more complex —  and troubling —  than what the public was told.
#FreeSB F
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 1/29


--- PAGE 2 ---

financial health of Alameda and FTX , triggering both a 5 0% crash in 
the value of Alameda’s assets and a run on FTX  deposits. The amount 
FTX  had on hand was short billions of dollars. It halted withdrawals, 
and soon after declared bankruptcy.
  5 . All margin exchanges are vulnerable to liquidity crises, and neither poor 
risk management nor bankruptcy are crimes. B ut rumor quickly spread 
that criminal activity had contributed to FTX ’s collapse. In D ecember 
2022, the C FTC  alleged that FTX  had “irrevocably lost” over $ 8  billion 
of customer funds.
  6 . L ater that month, U .S. prosecutors charged him with fraud and 
conspiracy; he was arrested and later extradited to the U .S. In August 
2023, he was sent to MD C  B rooklyn, his bail revoked for alleged 
witness tampering.
  7. C aroline E llison and FTX  executives Gary W ang and Nishad Singh 
took plea deals and testified against SB F in October 2023. The verdict 
was guilty on all seven counts: two counts of wire fraud (on customers 
and lenders) and five counts of conspiracy (to commit wire fraud on 
customers and lenders, securities fraud on investors, commodities fraud 
on customers, and money laundering).
  8 . On March 28 , 2024, SB F was sentenced to 25  years in prison and 
ordered to pay $ 11 billion in forfeiture to the U .S. government.
  9 . In 2025 , repayments began, with customers receiving 100% of their 
dollarized claims plus 9 % annual interest.
  10. SB F continues to maintain his innocence and has appealed his 
conviction.
❖  AL L E GATIONS ❖
SB F is alleged to have stolen $ 8 + billion from FTX  customers, and then lied 
about it to equity investors in FTX  and to lenders to Alameda. According to 
the U .S. government, SB F repeatedly represented that customer funds were 
“safe,” while he secretly:
•Allowed Alameda to spend unlimited amounts of other customers’ funds 
via a backdoor in its customer account on FTX
•D irected customers to deposit funds into bank accounts controlled by 
Alameda and told Alameda to spend those funds
FTX , prosecutors argued, was a scam from the start. It “had more debts than 
assets” from 2021, customer liabilities became “unrepayable,” and “there is no 
serious dispute that around $ 10 billion went missing” (trial transcript) —  all 
spent on personal luxuries, reckless investments, repaying loans, and secret 
political influence to help SB F steal even more.
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 2/29


--- PAGE 3 ---

For an overview of the government’s version of events in its own words, see 
the 18 -page indictment, pages 18 -29  of the reply to SB F’s appeal, or the 
following short summary from the website of the D epartment of Justice:
•“B ankman-Fried was the founder and chief executive officer of FTX , an 
international cryptocurrency exchange. From 2019  to 2022, B ankman-
Fried was the leader and mastermind of a scheme to defraud customers 
of FTX  by misappropriating billions of dollars of those customers’ 
funds. B ankman-Fried took FTX  customer funds for his personal use, to 
make investments and millions of dollars of political contributions to 
candidates from both parties, and to repay billions of dollars in loans 
owed by Alameda Research, a cryptocurrency trading fund that 
B ankman-Fried also founded. B ankman-Fried also defrauded lenders to 
Alameda and equity investors in FTX  by providing them false and 
misleading financial information that concealed his misuse of customer 
deposits.  
•“B ankman-Fried repeatedly told his customers, his investors, and the 
public that customer deposits into FTX  were kept safe and were held in 
custody for the customers, that customer deposits were kept separate 
from company assets, and that customer deposits would not be used by 
FTX . He also repeatedly claimed that his trading company, Alameda, 
did not have any privileged access to FTX  and did not receive special 
treatment from FTX . Those statements were false, and B ankman-Fried 
in fact channeled billions of dollars in customer deposits from FTX  to 
Alameda, and then used those funds to make investments for his own 
benefit, to make political contributions, and to spend on real estate, 
among other expenditures.  He employed a variety of fraudulent means 
to perpetrate this fraud. For instance, B ankman-Fried directed co-
conspirators to alter FTX ’s computer code to allow Alameda to 
withdraw effectively unlimited amounts of cryptocurrency from the 
exchange and made false statements to financial institutions to conceal 
his misuse of customer dollar deposits. He also directed the creation of 
false financial statements for Alameda’s lenders, inflated FTX ’s revenues 
and profits in numbers provided to investors, and backdated contracts 
and other documents to conceal his fraudulent conduct.”
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 3/29


--- PAGE 4 ---

“The core dispute in this case is whether the defendant knew taking the money
was wrong.”
— the prosecution in their summation
“[G]ood faith on the part of a defendant is a complete defense to the charge of
wire fraud.”
— the judge instructing the jury
❖  CORE DEFENSE ❖
FTX  was a real, innovative business run in good faith. Alameda, SB F’s 
trading firm, borrowed from FTX  just as any margin customer could, with 
special access that was legitimate and known to many. Shortly before the 
collapse, SB F learned that Alameda’s balance on FTX  had become net 
negative, and he began trying to fix it.
B ut Alameda and FTX  always had more assets than liabilities overall. If their 
lawyers hadn’t put them in bankruptcy, customers would likely have been fully 
repaid in kind within weeks of the run on the exchange, and FTX  would be 
worth close to $ 100 billion today.
Read on for details…
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 4/29


--- PAGE 5 ---

THE ACCIDENT: ALAMEDA INVESTS $8 BILLION OF CUSTOMER 
FUNDS
If Alameda “used” $8 billion of customer deposits at SBF’s direction, why did no 
one testify that he knew about it until the weeks before the run on FTX  — and 
why did witnesses say he immediately tried to reverse it and even proposed 
shutting Alameda down?
Alameda invested around $ 8  billion of customer fiat (i.e. non-crypto) deposits into 
illiquid assets —  assets that couldn’t be quickly sold without losing significant 
value. SB F only learned about this after it had happened, piecing it together over 
June to October 2022.
W HE N D ID  SB F L E ARN THAT AL AME D A HAD  INV E STE D  $ 8
B IL L ION OF C U STOME R D E POSITS?
In June 2022, SB F and co-defendants E llison, W ang, and Singh discovered that 
Alameda hadn’t transferred the fiat deposits it had been collecting for FTX , even 
though FTX  had opened its own bank accounts months earlier. “[I]nitially, FTX  
didn't have its own bank accounts, so it used Alameda bank accounts” (Wang 
testimony); “by 2022, . . . FTX  was no longer using Alameda bank accounts . . . 
[b]ut . . . the fiat@ liability still exist[ed]” (Wang testimony). They calculated that 
“in banks, Alameda's or FTX , there should be $ 11 billion of fiat sent by 
customers” (Singh testimony). In other words, Alameda still owed FTX  up to $ 11 
billion.
“[I]n the months following June 2022, there was a project . . . that included 
getting a clearer picture of the fiat@ liability that was owed by Alameda” (Wang 
testimony). Rather than keeping the liability a secret, SB F looped in more people 
to work out its exact size: “Adam, Andrea, and Gary [W ang] went through an 
exercise with help of the fiat settlement team to . . . split that fiat@FTX .com 
balance into two balances: One corresponding to what Alameda owed, one 
corresponding to what FTX  owed” (Singh testimony).
In September 2022, E llison revealed that Alameda would not be able to transfer 
the amount it owed FTX  quickly because Alameda had invested it all into assets 
with low liquidity. “[N]ot all elements of the prosecution narrative line up neatly. 
Singh said he left the crucial June meeting still thinking things were OK and did 
not realise customer funds were being raided until September” (Financial Times). 
“The majority of the liability consisted of FTX  customer fiat that was supposed to 
be housed in Alameda bank accounts, and nothing about the [June 2022] exercise 
suggested to Nishad that those funds were not in the bank accounts[;] E llison had 
even confirmed months earlier that Alameda was tracking this fiat liability” (Singh 
sentencing memo). “[O]n September 7, . . . E llison tells [Singh], Gary [W ang], and 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 5/29


--- PAGE 6 ---

the defendant over a Signal chat that it is impossible to close out Alameda's 
borrowing because of the size of the hole [i.e., liquidity gap]” (prosecutor, trial 
transcript).
This was news to SB F. “W hat I [had] believed was that either the funds were just 
being held in a bank account and, you know, not used or removed, or that they 
were being sent to FTX  in one way or another, maybe as stablecoin, or to the 
extent that those weren't happening and that Alameda was borrowing funds and 
using them, that that would be reflected as a borrow on Alameda's info@ account . 
. .  that I had looked at[, which] was Alameda's primary trading account on FTX ” 
(trial transcript).
In October 2022, SB F confirmed the size and illiquidity of the liability for 
himself. “I ultimately learned confidently that the fiat@ liability, in particular its 
size, was 8  billion from a database. . . . In around September and October of 2022, 
FTX 's developers had built a second database . . . to have a source that 
nondevelopers [like SB F] could interact with. . . . I got access in October of 2022” 
(trial transcript). “B y October, [SB F] had a clearer picture. It was only then that he 
could see that Alameda had been operating as if the $ 8 .8  billion in customer funds 
belonged to it” (Going Infinite).
No testimony or evidence suggested that SB F had instructed Alameda to touch 
any of these fiat funds. Indeed, “no one testified that they knew about this liability, 
which we've come to learn was related to the fiat@ account, before June 2022” 
(defense counsel, trial transcript).
HOW  C OU L D  THIS HAV E  HAP P E NE D  W ITHOU T P E OP L E
RE AL IZ ING?
Part of the explanation may be that the accounting at Alameda was chaotic:
•“Q. B y mid-2022 . . . W as Alameda also still borrowing money from FTX ? A. 
Yeah. . . . Q. W ere you keeping track of that borrowing? A. Yeah. Not 
necessarily carefully, but to some extent” (Ellison testimony).
•W hen asked if the spreadsheet E llison made for SB F in the fall of 2021 for 
“analyzing Alameda's NAV  . . . account[ed] for the customer money Alameda 
was already using that came in the form of customer fiat or dollar deposits”, 
E llison replied, “I don't recall exactly how they accounted for that, like 
whether that's included in the current totals or not” (trial transcript).
•“Q. . . . So if Sam wanted to see the account balances of any customer on the 
FTX  exchange, he could call up that information on the admin user's 
dashboard, right? A. Yes. Q. And he could do that for Alameda, for example. 
A. Yes. . . . Q. Okay. B ut as you said, the fiat@ liability was not part of 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 6/29


--- PAGE 7 ---

Alameda's balances on the admin user's page; is that right? A. Not as of June 
2022” (Wang testimony).
•“[E llison] wasn't aware that there was a bug in [Alameda’s] system for six 
months after it had already been discovered, and she woke up one day and 
[mistakenly] believed that her company, which previously had a NAV  of 8  to 
10 billion, was now bankrupt, overnight” (defense counsel, trial transcript).
•“[E llison] testified that the firm had attempted to hire several people to 
oversee Alameda’s accounting, but they all left” (C NB C ).
B ut even if E llison understood what was happening all along, by 2022, she was 
calling the shots at Alameda and SB F was paying little attention: “E llison testified 
that she and Trabucco began handling a lot of Alameda’s day-to-day business as 
early as 2020, well before officially taking over, and that there were periods of time 
where B ankman-Fried would not talk to them much. B y 2021, she testified, 
B ankman-Fried had largely stopped coming into the Alameda office and had left 
more of the job to E llison. . . . E llison also testified that B ankman-Fried had 
discussed adding a new co-C E O when Trabucco left, but she resisted. . . . E llison 
said she was skeptical [about SB F’s advice to hedge] and didn’t do anything about 
it. . . . E llison said [her and SB F’s] breakup in the spring of 2022 affected 
communications between the two of them” (C NB C ). E llison even wrote in her 
journal in April 2022, “I almost feel like I'm living a lie because people don't 
realize how little I'm working and what a shitty job I'm doing” (Ellison sentencing 
memo).
SB F RE AC TE D  L IKE  A P E RSON TRY ING TO P ROTE C T
C U STOME RS
       “I f— ed up.”
       —  SB F, draft congressional testimony
The miscommunication over the fiat deposits was undeniably a major f— up. B ut 
SB F appears to have reasonably believed this wouldn’t put customers at any serious 
risk for three reasons: Alameda’s net asset value (NAV ) was still $ 8 -10 billion, 
there was still enough liquidity to meet 5 0x typical daily withdrawals, and there’d 
been no clear violation of any laws or terms.
  1. SB F says he checked that Alameda’s overall assets still exceeded its liabilities 
by $ 8 -10 billion: “I asked C aroline to confirm that this definitely meant that 
Alameda's NAV  was positive 8  to 10 billion . . . and she said that they had in 
fact confirmed that” (trial transcript). SB F also owned 6 0% of FTX  —  valued 
at $ 32 billion earlier in the year —  which ultimately helped secure a $ 4 
billion liquidity offer when withdrawals unexpectedly spiked. (There was also 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 7/29


--- PAGE 8 ---

an informal offer of $ 2-4 billion and plausibly SB F would have attracted 
even more offers if given a few more days; the bankruptcy team, however, 
ignored all offers of liquidity.) After E llison revealed the $ 8  billion mismatch 
between the liquidity that might be needed in an emergency and what was 
available, SB F reportedly said, “‘I'm not sure what there is to worry about. 
NAV  is fantastic by almost any measure. It was super positive even if you 
don't include FTX  and FTX .U S equity’” (Singh testimony). And when asked 
to “name any customers that were allowed to pledge outside investments as 
collateral for withdrawing money on FTX  apart from Alameda,” SB F replied, 
“I believe that we did that with a firm called C rypto L otus, and I believe that 
we considered that with Three Arrows” (trial transcript).
  2. C ustomer withdrawals were typically “around a hundred million per day” 
(Wang testimony). D espite Alameda having put $ 8  billion of deposits into 
illiquid assets, SB F calculated that “in 24 hours, if pressed, I think we could 
deliver around $ 5  billion” in withdrawals (Singh testimony) —  which they did, 
in fact, end up managing.
  3. FTX  operated a margin lending program, which allowed customers to borrow 
from one another. (Participants were warned it was “HIGH RISK,” especially 
since “even if you have not suffered any liquidations or losses, your Account 
balance may be subject to clawback due to losses suffered by other U sers” 
(terms of service), and that “[w]hile FTX  aims to reduce the likelihood of 
clawbacks, they are still possible” (FTX  blog).) There appear to have been 
enough of these margined assets to cover Alameda’s $ 8  billion “borrow” —  
when FTX  filed for bankruptcy, it owed non-margin customers $ 2.03 billion, 
and FTX  and Alameda had sufficient liquid funds to pay them back. Indeed, 
according to the defense’s expert witness, “8 0 percent of the assets on FTX  
were margined assets . . . 8 0 percent are in this margin trading where 
customers are always borrowing other customers' assets” (defense counsel 
summarizing Dr Pimbley’s testimony). B ut even if one were to insist that it was 
not appropriate to categorize this $ 8  billion error as a margin borrow, it was 
also true that —  as bankruptcy filings acknowledge —  “[t]he user agreements 
[] did not provide for the segregation of assets or the return of assets in 
specie to customers[, n]or did such ‘ownership’ language cover the billions in 
fiat currency owed to customers” (court docket).
C onsequently, “Sam said he's not too worried and he described a number of sort of 
strategies [to raise liquidity] . . . . He described selling off Alameda's illiquid but, 
according to his estimation, valuable assets, and properties; he described, for the 
ones that weren't sellable but generated revenue, making sort of low-hanging 
changes to make them more profitable; he discussed raising from investors, selling 
FTX  equity . . . I asked if now, Sam would take seriously cutting expenses . . . He 
said yes” (Singh testimony).
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 8/29


--- PAGE 9 ---

THE  B ANK SU GGE STE D  AL AME D A AC C E P T C U STOME RS' FIAT
W HIL E  IT FIGU RE D  OU T HOW  TO ONB OARD  FTX  D IRE C TLY
At trial, the government portrayed FTX ’s banking structure as a mechanism 
purposefully designed for stealing funds: “[T]he money never actually made it to 
FTX . Instead, the defendant opened a bank account that was under the control of 
Alameda, his other company. He put the information for that Alameda bank 
account on FTX 's website as the place where customers should send their money. 
So when customers thought their money was going to the exchange, they were 
actually sending their money right into the defendant's pocket. You will hear that 
the defendant even lied to a bank to set up an Alameda bank account that he used 
for this” (prosecutor, trial transcript).
B ut the U .S. government’s war on crypto was the real reason this banking setup 
ever existed. D uring B iden’s covert efforts to debank the industry, crypto 
THE DISTRACTION: BACK DOORS &  BANK ACCOUNTS
If business practices like the banking setup and ‘back door’ borrowing were 
unlawful, why did so many people know about them?
“Now, the defendant set up two secret ways through which Alameda could take or 
borrow customer money . . . by withdrawing it from FTX  from its cryptocurrency 
wallets in unlimited amounts, and by taking it out of the bank accounts that 
received those customer deposits. . . . [T]he defendant was treating their deposits 
as his personal piggy bank by funneling that money to Alameda” (prosecutor, trial
transcript).
“FTX  was a relatively rare example of a crypto company that did have a full audit 
under generally accepted accounting principles. . . . Prager Metis said it stands 
behind its audit opinion. . . . Armanino is ‘confident that it complied with all 
applicable professional standards in the conduct of its audit work’” (Wall Street
Journal).
To reduce the risk of something like this happening again, SB F “asked Andrea 
L incoln, one of the developers, to work on [getting their accounting in shape], 
with an E TA of October 15 th” (defense counsel, trial transcript). And in September 
2022, he “laid out a case for shutting down Alameda, citing that Sam didn't have 
faith in its— — the competency of its leadership without him more involved” 
(Singh testimony). “The defendant wrote a five-page memo that includes six 
numbered points for why to shut down Alameda,” (prosecutor, trial transcript); “if 
he really thought Alameda was the key to his fraud, if this was the engine to keep 
stealing money from customers, the last thing he would do would be to propose 
shutting it down,” (defense counsel, trial transcript).
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 9/29


--- PAGE 10 ---

exchanges struggled to get their own bank accounts, often having to rely on 
payment processors to allow customers to buy crypto using fiat currency like U .S. 
dollars. FTX  initially had an Alameda-owned bank account accept customer fiat 
deposits on its behalf, along with “multiple other payment processors for FTX  
[who] had accounts on FTX  as well” (trial transcript).
As one observer puts it, “the primary reason funds were comingled stems from the 
B iden administration’s refusal to allow companies like FTX  access to traditional 
banking services[, which] forced B ankman-Fried to move money through his 
hedge fund, an act that, while improper, was a direct result of systemic barriers” 
(amuse).
SB F was barely even involved in this process. “FTX  began receiving deposits into 
[Alameda’s bank account]. [SB F] says he learned about it later, sometime in 2020” 
(B loomberg). “B ankman-Fried says the decision to incorporate [this new bank 
account] was communicated by D an Friedberg” (B loomberg). One of SB F’s co-
defendants said that lawyers helped implement this structure and that, far from 
the bank being “lied to,” it was actually the bank’s idea. (E mail screenshots 
confirm that the bank was at the very least aware of the arrangement.)
It was not particularly hidden from customers either. FTX ’s wire instructions for 
fiat deposits said, “B eneficiary Name: Alameda Research LTD ” (X ).
P E E R-TO-P E E R L E ND ING W AS A FE ATU RE , NOT A B U G —
MU C H L E SS A C RIME  —  AND  AL AME D A D ID N'T B ORROW
MORE  THAN W AS P E RMISSIB L E
P utting the $ 8  billion fiat accident in 2022 aside, Alameda’s overall account 
balance was always positive on FTX . As a margin customer, it borrowed and 
withdrew funds from the exchange, while posting more in collateral than it 
borrowed. U nlike with the bank account, this other “secret way[] through which 
Alameda could take or borrow customer money” did not involve net borrowing.
As SB F explained at trial, with FTX ’s margin lending facility, “[s]o long as we 
believed that the risk was being managed, which is to say, so long as we believed 
its assets were greater than its liabilities, we didn't care if the user, you know, 
withdrew funds and used them to buy muffins, to pay business expenses, to invest 
or anything else” (Guardian). This is consistent with pre-bankruptcy statements: 
“You can deposit, and withdraw, and trade, as long as you don't go beyond your 
margin limits” (X ). “Reminder: on FTX , all margin/leverage/futures/etc. are 
automatic. . . . You can even withdraw short!” (X ). “You can even do this with 
withdrawals!” (Spot M argin Trading Explainer, FTX .com).
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 10/29


--- PAGE 11 ---

Prosecutors emphasized that one of Alameda’s subaccounts was “[n]egative $ 2.7 
billion” in June 2022 (trial transcript). However, W ang confirmed on cross-
examination that when the up-to-$ 11-billion fiat liability was put aside, Alameda’s 
net balance on FTX  was positive: “The numbers on the spreadsheet reflect about 
11 billion liability for fiat and almost a total of 11 billion liability on the 
exchange, right? A. Yes” (trial transcript). According to SB F, Alameda was 
borrowing —  again, putting the fiat ‘borrow’ aside —  “millions in 2019  . . . and 
then by 2022, my understanding was that it was around $ 2 billion on average of 
borrowing” from FTX , maintaining a balance that was “[o]verall positive, but 
negative in some assets” (trial transcript). Similarly, Singh said that prior to 
E llison telling him in September 2022 that she’d invested the fiat deposits, he 
“thought Alameda had positive balances on FTX , that it was borrowing lots in 
some places but that overall they had more money than they didn't” (trial 
transcript).
Singh further said that everyone at Alameda must have known that one of its 
subaccounts on FTX  was negative $ 2.7 billion: “This number . . . is a front-and-
center number in all of Alameda's trading systems . . . [which] I couldn't imagine 
being missed or ignored by anyone there” (trial transcript).
W HE N IS A B AC K D OOR NOT A B AC K D OOR? W HE N IT'S A RE D
HE RRING
Alameda’s customer account on FTX  had what the media dubbed a ‘back door’ —  
certain subaccounts had the auto-liquidation feature turned off, and one used $ 3 
billion of a $ 6 5  billion credit line (“[there was] around $ 3 billion . . . in borrowing 
against the line of credit of 6 5  billion” (Wang testimony)). B ut as we’ve just seen, 
Alameda’s customer account was posting more assets to FTX  than it was 
borrowing from it. So why the ‘back door’?
As a backstop liquidity provider, Alameda “agreed to buy assets that are held by 
users whose accounts are losing too much money” to “protect[] the rest of the FTX  
customers from incurring losses” (Wang testimony). As a market maker, it 
maintained a vast number of open orders to support market liquidity. B ut the 
system counted these unfilled orders against Alameda’s collateral, making it look 
like Alameda didn’t have enough left to safely take on new trades —  even when it 
actually did. D uring times of platform stress, the system might then block 
Alameda from absorbing liquidated positions, forcing unwanted trades onto other 
customers instead.
This was not a hypothetical concern. “[FTX ’s] automated ‘risk engine’ suffered an 
error that turned a routine liquidation of a few thousand dollars into an almost 
catastrophic series of trades. . . . As FTX  grew, the volume of trades strained the 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 11/29


--- PAGE 12 ---

company's computer systems . . . The trading became so large, it had to go to a 
backstop liquidity provider, in this case Alameda” (C NN). “That, in turn, caused 
Alameda's account to go under water because of the positions it was being handed 
in the trillions of dollars and triggered a potential liquidation of Alameda's 
account which . . . ultimately would claw back funds from the entire platform's 
users” (SB F testimony). Alameda had stopped being eligible as a backstop liquidity 
provider since “its free collateral was zero [— ] not because it had a bunch of 
positions but because it had tons and tons of open orders out— — open orders for 
the purpose of providing liquidity on the hundreds of markets” (Singh testimony).
The solution? Replace automated risk checks on Alameda’s customer account with 
manual monitoring. Asked what was done in response to the near-catastrophic 
liquidation, Singh pointed to the idea of “increasing Alameda's line of credit” and 
the auto-liquidation exemption: “if the sole cause of Alameda being an ineligible 
backstop provider was that it didn't have enough free collateral, that was no longer 
considered . . . [which] would be helpful to customers” (trial transcript). Similarly, 
when W ang was asked about the goal of the huge credit line, he said it was to 
ensure “[i]t would not impact Alameda placing orders on the exchange for market 
making” and agreed that $ 6 5  billion “was just sort of a notional number to make 
sure that this problem of butting up against the ceiling didn't happen again” (trial 
transcript). (W hy not $ 9 9 ,9 9 9 ,9 9 9 ,9 9 9 ? “Some have wondered why W ang chose 
such a seemingly arbitrary number as $ 6 5 ,35 5 ,9 9 9 ,9 9 4. My best guess is he meant 
to set it to around $ 6 5 .5 35  billion . . . 6 5 ,5 35  [] is meaningful in computer science 
as the largest possible value of an unsigned 16 -bit integer” (M olly W hite).)
W ang acknowledged that “Alameda wasn't the only customer on FTX  to be 
exempted from auto-liquidation” (trial transcript) and, according to Singh, the 
exemption was “used by other developers, too, for legitimate purposes” (Singh 
sentencing memo). FTX ’s three most senior lawyers also knew about it: “Q. . . . [I]n 
August of 2022 [] you learned about Alameda having certain privileges on the 
FTX  exchange. . . . D id you discuss this with anyone else besides Mr. D exter and 
Mr. Miller around that time? A. Yes. I discussed it with D an Friedberg, Nishad, 
and Sam. And D avid. . . . [They decided to] change it to a delayed liquidation 
mechanism, make it known to our users and our regulators, and also offer it on a 
nondiscretionary basis to all large market makers. . . . Nishad had assured me that 
that mechanism had never been triggered” (testimony of general counsel C an Sun).
The so-called ‘back door’ was therefore irrelevant to what went wrong at FTX . It 
wasn’t built or used to siphon off funds, but to minimize customer losses.
THE FABRICATION: FTX  W AS NEVER ACTUALLY BANKRUPT
If SBF had more debts than assets for at least a year before FTX  collapsed, why 
do bankruptcy court filings indicate the opposite?
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 12/29


--- PAGE 13 ---

“B illions of dollars missing in cryptocurrency, billions of dollars missing from 
bank accounts, and there is no serious dispute about that. . . . [T]he defendant 
schemed and lied to get money, which he spent, and now it's gone. . . . At this 
point [SB F is] already able to see in late 2021 that Alameda has more loans than 
it has assets. . . . [T]he defendant had more debts than assets and the only 
available money was this FTX  customer money” (prosecutor, trial transcript).
“[G]iven the emerging picture of FTX ’s finances, could it be that FTX  didn’t have 
to go into this bankruptcy with a [b]illion-dollar price tag?” (American Prospect).
“So FTX  was … illiquid but solvent? Absolutely wild” (M att Levine, M ay 2024).
D OE S IT MATTE R?
Now that customers are being made whole (potentially at current prices), many are 
quick to add that even if FTX ’s assets exceeded its liabilities when it filed for 
bankruptcy —  even if the $ 8  billion owed to customers was never in fact ‘missing,’ 
just temporarily tied up in various investments —  this is irrelevant to the question 
of whether or not there was fraud.
Perhaps. B ut I include the ‘missing vs. illiquid’ question here because people seem 
to find it relevant when they think the answer reflects badly on SB F.  “One key 
issue was how much money FTX ’s customers lost. D uring the trial, the 
prosecution and its witnesses repeatedly – in fact, 9 7 times – put that number at 
$ 8  billion. Although no proof to substantiate this massive figure was ever offered, 
the prosecution clearly wanted it to stay in jury members’ heads” (Project 
Syndicate). Some wonder how the FTX  story would have played out had this 
‘irrelevant’ accusation never been part of it.
W hat’s more, while the prosecution was free to say to the jury, “B illions of dollars 
from thousands of people gone,” the judge prohibited the defense from arguing 
that customer funds were not, in fact, “gone,” or that the investments had done 
well (trial transcript). The defense had protested that “[while] the prosecution was 
trying to paint FTX ’s investments as risky and bad, Anthropic’s success showed 
that their investments were merely part of a reasonable investing strategy,” but the 
judge ruled that “any success was irrelevant . . . and Anthropic . . . should not be 
discussed” (W ired). “The government hammered these points in closing, arguing 
B ankman-Fried had caused billions in losses— money that was ‘missing.’ It 
repeatedly argued FTX  and Alameda were ‘deeply in the red,’ ‘$ 10 billion plus in 
the hole,’ and ‘totally under water.’ And it contended the insolvency was ‘very clear 
to the defendant.’ The defense was prevented from presenting evidence rebutting 
these arguments” (SB F’s appeal).
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 13/29


--- PAGE 14 ---

IL L IQU ID  B U T SOLV E NT
SB F has consistently maintained that FTX  remained solvent —  that it always had 
enough assets to meet its liabilities if given time to liquidate them —  and that 
FTX  U S was always both solvent and fully liquid (SB F’s Substack).
Shortly before the bankruptcy, the tech team had confirmed that FTX  U S was 
unaffected by the liquidity crisis at FTX  (a separate, non-U .S. entity with no U .S. 
customers). Ten months later, an Independent E xaminer reached the same 
conclusion.
As for the international exchange, in the balance sheet SB F sent investors the day 
before it filed for bankruptcy, FTX  “is recorded as having liabilities of $ U S8 .9  
billion” against “a total of $ U S9 .6  billion of assets” (AFR). “B ankman-Fried 
[always] insisted that all the money was still somehow accessible . . . In some ways, 
his narrative appears to be proving true. . . . For FTX  customers, being made 
whole, according to a judge’s ruling, means getting the cash equivalent of what 
their crypto was worth in November 2022” (C NB C ). “W as SB F (sort of) right? It 
turns out, FTX  lawyers now say it will be able to pay creditors in full” (Andrew 
Ross Sorkin). “FTX  has estimated that it will have between $ 14.7 billion and $ 16 .5  
billion available to repay creditors, enough to pay customers at least 118 % of the 
value in their accounts as of November 2022” (Reuters).
B ut SB F was not merely “in some ways,” “sort of” right. C ommentators are fond of 
attributing FTX ’s ability to repay customers to nothing more than a meteoric rise 
in the value of its investments and a Herculean effort by the bankruptcy lawyers. 
Few people are aware that those bankruptcy lawyers have produced public 
calculations of petition-date balances —  the same lawyers who originally reported 
SB F to authorities, who strong-armed him into letting them file for bankruptcy, 
and who ultimately paid themselves and their associates $ 1.5  billion to manage the 
estate. And what do their own calculations show? On the eve of the bankruptcy, 
FTX  had around $ 14 billion of assets against $ 9 .2 billion of liabilities to 
customers. It was solvent.
THE  L AW Y E RS &  THE IR B IL L ION-D OL L AR B ANKRU P TC Y
This heavily conflicted team of lawyers have nonetheless repeatedly insisted that 
FTX  was “hopelessly insolvent” (court docket), that FTX  U S “is not solvent” 
(congressional testimony), and that the situation would likely only worsen, with the 
“[r]ecoverable value [of the estate’s investments] likely to be materially lower than 
acquisition value” (presentation to creditors). They even sent a ‘victim impact 
statement’ to the trial court on the eve of SB F’s sentencing, stating —  without 
evidence —  that his claim that “FTX  was solvent at the time that the C hapter 11 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 14/29


--- PAGE 15 ---

petition was filed . . . is categorically, callously, and demonstrably false” (court 
docket).
The judge believed them, arguing at SB F’s sentencing, “[F]or the reasons very well 
articulated by Mr. Rehn in the submission on behalf of the debtor's estate, even 
the premise that customers will be paid dollar-for-dollar for the dollarized losses 
as of the petition date is pretty speculative, even at this stage” (court docket).
Prosecutors believed them, describing to the jury how, as far back as 2021, SB F 
allegedly knew that “they've got more loans than assets, he sees they're in the red” 
(trial transcript).
The press believed them, reporting over and over again that around $ 8  billion had 
been lost: “FTX  says it has identified a deficit of $ 8 .9  billion in customer funds 
that it can’t account for, the first time the bankrupt cryptocurrency exchange has 
pinned down how much money has gone missing” (WSJ).
And customers believed them, some selling their claims for as little as three cents 
on the dollar. Today, claims are fetching up to 147%.
In fact, not only was there enough in November 2022 to fully repay customers —  
with seemingly enough liquidity on the way to process all repayments, in kind, 
that same month —  there could easily have been enough to fully repay customers 
today, at today’s prices, several times over. In their sentencing letter, the bankruptcy 
lawyers characterized their work as “digging through the rubble of Mr. B ankman-
Fried’s sprawling criminal enterprise to unearth every possible dollar, token or 
other asset that was spent on luxury homes, private jets, overpriced speculative 
ventures, and otherwise lost to the four winds” (court docket). B ut FTX ’s Anthropic 
stake alone would be worth more today than the book value of the entire venture 
portfolio of 300+ investments at the time of the bankruptcy. The estate also 
missed out on huge gains from Solana, Sui, C ursor, C ircle, Robinhood, W orldcoin, 
FTT, and the going-concern value of FTX  itself. In March 2025 , SB F estimated 
that, had the lawyers not placed FTX  into bankruptcy, rather than sitting on $ 14.5  
billion to $ 16 .3 billion of assets today, FTX  would have around $ 9 3 billion.
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 15/29


--- PAGE 16 ---

1. The defense was barred from saying many business practices were
approved by lawyers
“To prove intent to defraud, the government contended that certain FTX  policies 
and business practices were deceptive. B ankman-Fried sought to show that the 
policies and practices were appropriate and had been adopted with counsel’s 
advice. . . . [T]he solution for [] potentially false testimony is cross-examination 
and contrary evidence, not exclusion. . . . B efore trial, the district court ruled that 
all defense evidence on advice-of-counsel was inadmissible absent explicit advance 
approval by the court. It then rejected the defense’s detailed written proffer. 
B ankman-Fried was thus forced to sit for a deposition, allowing the government to 
cross-examine him before he took the stand— something that apparently has never 
happened before in federal court” (SB F’s appeal).
“[The judge] ruled that B ankman-Fried could offer limited testimony on the 
involvement of lawyers in creating FTX ’s corporate document retention policy . . . 
[but] den[ied] B ankman-Fried’s efforts to obtain the document retention policy in 
discovery . . . and [] refus[ed] to allow cross-examination of the cooperating 
witnesses on the same topic” (SB F’s appeal). (“[SB F] says C hief Regulatory Officer 
D an Friedberg put together a documentation-retention policy . . . [A]ny formal 
business communications, any decisions made and any records would not be 
deleted. . . . B ankman-Fried says in November 2022 he took an effort to disable 
auto-deletion ‘on any place I found it’” (B loomberg). “B ankman-Fried testified that 
he was merely following a rule he picked up . . . at Jane Street. That was the ‘New 
❖  8 MORE DEFENSES ❖
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 16/29


--- PAGE 17 ---

York Times test,’ which, according to B ankman-Fried, was a frequent point of 
reference at the elite quant shop. ‘Anything that you write down,’ he recalled, 
‘there's some chance it could end up on the front page of The New York Times.’ 
He added: ‘A lot of innocuous things can seem pretty bad’ without context” 
(C oinDesk).)
“The court excluded all the other proffered testimony. The court thus excluded 
evidence that (a) lawyers approved the North D imension entities and bank 
accounts [Alameda’s bank accounts for receiving customers’ fiat]; (b) lawyers 
drafted the Payment Agent Agreement between FTX  and Alameda; (c) lawyers 
approved loans from FTX  to B ankman-Fried and others; and (d) lawyers drafted 
and approved FTX ’s terms of service” (SB F’s appeal).
“FTX ’s bankruptcy highlights how much power the debtors and their lawyers have 
in controlling the facts and the evidence. . . . SB F’s defense lawyers were stymied 
from mentioning the role of lawyers at FTX  (except for one lawyer, D aniel 
Friedberg, who . . . had tried unsuccessfully to keep Sullivan &  C romwell from 
running the bankruptcy). . . . SB F’s lawyers tried to raise the name of Ryne Miller, 
the former Sullivan &  C romwell partner who was general counsel of FTX  U .S.:
       SB F’s lawyer: I wanted to ask him [an FB I agent who was testifying] if he 
knows who Ryne Miller is.
       Judge L ewis Kaplan: You can ask him who Johnny Podres was.
       SB F’s lawyer: Yes, your Honor.
       Judge Kaplan: He was a pitcher for the B rooklyn D odgers.
       SB F’s lawyer: Nothing further.” (American Prospect)
As one co-defendant put it, “B ut I don't know what the point of the lawyer is 
then. If I go to the lawyer and say, ‘Is this MTL  legal or is this campaign finance 
thing we're doing legal?’ and they say, ‘Yes,’ what —  am I just supposed to be a 
lawyer? This is their purpose. . . . It's frustrating to be in trouble for things that 
you genuinely try to do legally and feel like you went the route you were supposed 
to to do them legally” (The Tucker C arlson Show).
2. SB F was increasingly silenced, while the lawyers helped shape a one-sided
public narrative
SB F was arrested and jailed in The B ahamas on U .S. criminal charges just one 
month since FTX ’s collapse and the day before he was scheduled to testify about 
the collapse before C ongress, leaving FTX ’s bankruptcy C E O, John Ray, to testify 
unopposed. At least one congressman present thought that “this was a decision 
made by somebody at D OJ to prevent Sam B ankman-Fried from coming here” 
(HFSC  hearing).
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 17/29


--- PAGE 18 ---

Following extradition to the U .S., SB F was kept under house arrest. In July 2023, 
he was issued a gag order. Two months before trial, his bail was revoked —  
apparently with input from the bankruptcy lawyers, as reflected in fee statement 
entries like “[C ]all with N. Roos (SD NY ) re: amendment to bail package for S. 
B ankman-Fried” and “Review and analyze SD NY  motion re: bail order . . . C all 
with SD NY  re: S. B ankman-Fried motion . . . Attend hearing re: S. B ankman-
Fried bail revocation . . . Review prosecutors’ letter requesting pre-trial detention 
of S. B ankman-Fried” (second and ninth monthly fee statement of Sullivan &  
C romwell).
SB F was jailed on the basis of two alleged attempts at witness tampering:
  1. “[SB F] sent the general counsel of FTX  U S, who has been referred to as 
W itness-1, the following message via Signal [and Gmail], an encrypted 
communications medium: ‘Hey, I know it's been a whole while since we have 
talked, and I know things have ended up on the wrong foot. I would really 
love to reconnect and see if there is a way for us to have a constructive 
relationship, use each other as resources when possible, or at least vet things 
with each other. I would love to get on a phone call sometime soon and 
chat.’” (bail revocation hearing). The defense maintained that this was simply 
“the last of a series of messages that he sent to W itness-1 [and other 
bankruptcy lawyers] to offer his help supporting FTX ’s creditors in the 
bankruptcy” and that “it was W itness-1 who first reached out to Mr. 
B ankman-Fried using Signal . . . to encourage him to ‘align’ his efforts to 
‘support customer assets’ with efforts by W itness-1 and other in-house FTX  
attorneys” (court docket).
  2. SB F showed a reporter some private messages from E llison about how 
overwhelmed she’d felt at work and how their breakups made things even 
more difficult. The defense argued that, “The reporter contacted Mr. 
B ankman-Fried about an article he was already writing that featured Ms. 
E llison’s personal diaries and writings. The reporter was already aware of 
these documents because he had written an article two months earlier in 
which he described Ms. E llison’s writings and reported that they contained 
her ‘raw reflections on SB F’ and her ‘personal and professional resentment’ 
towards him. Hence, Mr. B ankman-Fried shared copies of writings that the 
reporter apparently already knew about, and which were not produced in 
discovery . . . [I]t was a permissible exercise of Mr. B ankman-Fried’s First 
Amendment right to make fair comment on a media story about himself. . . . 
The Government [] asserts that because Mr. B ankman-Fried had several 
phone conversations with the reporter, it has ‘every reason to believe that he 
was a source for that [earlier] article as well. . . . In fact, it seems apparent 
that the Government or its agents were the source for at least some of the 
disclosures to the reporter. The July 20, 2023 article reports that 
‘[p]rosecutors are expected to begin preparing at least some witnesses in 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 18/29


--- PAGE 19 ---

August, two people with knowledge of the matter said.’ That information 
could only have come from the Government. . . . Not surprisingly, the 
published article was unfavorable to Mr. B ankman-Fried and favorable to 
Ms. E llison” (court docket).
“The relevant statute,” explained the judge, when remanding SB F to jail, “[says] 
that whoever knowingly uses intimidation, threatens or corruptly persuades 
another person, or attempts to do so, with intent to influence, delay, or prevent the 
testimony of any person in an official proceeding is guilty of a felony” (court 
docket). And yet the press remained free to vilify SB F without restriction, aided by 
the government: “[M]ore than 1 million articles mentioning FTX  have been 
published since the bankruptcy. The overwhelming majority of them have been 
negative towards Mr. B ankman-Fried. The Government is at least partially 
responsible for this deluge by repeatedly using the press to tout its evidence 
against Mr. B ankman-Fried” (court docket).
The press was also aided by John Ray. For instance, in an interview released on the 
first day of the trial proper, Ray said, “[SB F] was involved in everything[ a]nd he 
took money, and he spent it on stuff that had nothing to do with the business.” He 
explained that he’d never spoken to SB F because two days into joining FTX , “It’s 
pretty clear for me what happened in the company and what his role was,” and also 
explained that he charged creditors $ 1,300/hour because “[c]rime is very 
expensive” (Freakonomics). The interviewer offered mild pushback —  “[o]ne 
criticism I’ve heard of your being so public about how poorly the company was 
run, was that the more chaotic and absurd you can make it sound, the more that it 
may be to your benefit, to make your role seem even more heroic” —  and others 
noticed the strangeness of Ray’s behavior: “[I]t is hard to think of a C E O in 
recent memory who has been more focused on trashing the previous management” 
(B loomberg).
B ut Ray continued. In March 2024, he submitted a seven-page diatribe to the 
court for consideration in SB F’s sentencing, asserting: “Mr. B ankman-Fried 
continues to live a life of delusion. The ‘business’ he left on November 11, 2022 
was neither solvent nor safe. . . . That things that he stole, things he converted into 
other things, whether they were investments in B ahamas real estate, 
cryptocurrencies or speculative ventures, were successfully recovered through the 
enormous efforts of a dedicated group of professionals (a group unfairly maligned 
by Mr. B ankman-Fried and his supporters) does not mean that things were not 
stolen. W hat it means is that we got some of them back. And there are plenty of 
things we did not get back, like the bribes to C hinese officials or the hundreds of 
millions of dollars he spent to buy access to or time with celebrities or politicians 
or investments for which he grossly overpaid having done zero diligence. . . . The 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 19/29


--- PAGE 20 ---

remorse is nonexistent. E ffective altruism, at least as lived by Samuel B ankman-
Fried, was a lie” (court docket).
3. FTX  was not "built on lies"
B eyond the issues already discussed, the prosecution’s much-quoted portrayal of 
FTX  as “built on lies” appears to be based largely on: statements about the 
relationship between FTX  and Alameda; SB F’s frequent use of “I don’t recall” 
under cross-examination; and a tweet thread made to reassure customers as 
withdrawals spiked.
It’s often claimed that SB F told everyone Alameda’s FTX  account was just like 
everyone else’s, the key reference being a tweet from 2019 . B ut in that tweet, SB F 
is merely responding to a concern about potential front running: “How are you 
going to resolve the conflict of interest of running your own derivative exchange, 
AND  actively trading against the market at the same time?” (X ). Prosecutors also 
quoted an email and an interview; SB F claimed the wider conversation in both 
instances had again been front running. FTX ’s former C OO told Michael L ewis, 
“It was literally the first thing I was asked every day. Is Alameda Research front-
running us? . . . No one ever asked about liquidation . . . And no one ever asked, ‘Is 
our money actually inside Alameda?’” (Going Infinite). W ang said front running 
“was not a thing that happened at FTX , because there was not a way for anybody 
to see people's orders before they were processed” (trial transcript) and that 
“Alameda's role as a market maker on FTX  was described in documents that FTX  
put out to the public” (trial transcript) (and in SB F's tweet about front running).
“I don’t recall” was honesty, not evasiveness. “I'm somewhat sympathetic to the 
idea that being in jail made it difficult for B ankman-Fried to properly prepare for 
cross-examination” (C oinDesk). “There were around 10 million documents turned 
over in discovery, not including the database” (B loomberg). “B ankman-Fried 
estimated he gave around 5 0 interviews and didn’t have access to any internal 
documents. He said he didn’t remember every statement he made to journalists” 
(C NB C ).
As for the tweet thread, “On Nov. 7, 2022, as FTX  customer withdrawals spiked, 
B ankman-Fried wrote: ‘FTX  is fine. Assets are fine,’ and that the exchange had 
‘enough to cover all client holdings.’ . . . W ang, however, admitted on cross-
examination that in a Nov. 17 meeting with prosecutors he said the tweet was true 
because B ankman-Fried was careful to say that FTX  was solvent but not liquid” 
(Yahoo Finance). “At the point where I posted it,” SB F said, “Alameda still had a 
net asset value of roughly positive 10 billion. FTX  had no holes on its balance 
sheet. And there had been no attack on the customer assets” (trial transcript). 
“‘The evening of Nov. 7 and continuing into the morning of Nov. 8 , there was a 
market crash . . . Overall, this led to a roughly 5 0% crash in Alameda’s assets . . . 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 20/29


--- PAGE 21 ---

Alameda was still solvent, but there was little margin for error left.’ . . . B ankman-
Fried says that after that, ‘I took down the tweet thread’” (B loomberg).
4. SB F’s eccentricities were not "a performance"
Some people have doubted the authenticity of SB F’s distinctive look. B ut not 
those who have known him the longest, it seems. “The new prime minister arrived 
. . . Sam emerged, looking as if he had fallen out of a dumpster: cargo shorts, 
wrinkled T-shirt, droopy white socks. Same guy, thought Ian. From the moment he 
had started on the project and begun to observe Sam from afar, Ian had found the 
same thought often crossing his mind: how shockingly just like he’d been in high 
school Sam still was. W hen the oddball in your high school class became one of 
the richest people in the world, you sort of assume the oddball must have changed. 
Sam hadn’t changed” (Going Infinite).
“[T]he government was able to sell ideas about him that would have struck any of 
his closest colleagues as preposterous. The suggestion, for example, that everything 
about Sam’s appearance had been carefully curated to trick people. . . . If Sam 
B ankman-Fried’s appearance was an act, it was an act he’d performed his entire 
life. . . . His ‘look’ couldn’t have been more sincere. . . . At some point after he 
became a public figure —  a thing he’d never expected to be —  he no doubt noticed 
that other people seemed to be charmed by his look. His realization would have 
relieved him of any pressure to alter his appearance. B ut that’s different from 
creating a persona to deceive others” (Washington Post).
More significantly, SB F’s demeanor has been used against him as evidence of 
perjury. A prosecutor told the jury that on the stand, “He had to be asked and 
reasked[, h]e looked away[, h]e lied about big things, and he lied about little 
things” (trial transcript), and the judge claimed, “And when he wasn't outright 
lying, he was often evasive, hairsplitting, dodging questions and trying to get the 
prosecutor to reword questions in ways that he could answer in ways he thought 
less harmful than a truthful answer to the question that was posed would have 
been[;] I've been doing this job for close to 30 years [— ] I've never seen a 
performance quite like that,” (sentencing transcript). The judge also appears to have 
made his personal interpretations of SB F’s mannerisms plain to the jury:
•“It was pretty clear from the judge that the judge did not like him, did he? 
He really didn’t like his demeanor” (The Rest is Politics)
•“Judge Kaplan was visibly irritated with B ankman-Fried, at one point 
snapping at the FTX  founder to ‘just answer the question’” (Protos)
•“[SB F] was sometimes chided for straying off topic” (New York Times)
•“[Judge Kaplan] was all but openly derisive toward the former crypto mogul 
when B ankman-Fried testified during the trial itself, to the point where I did 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 21/29


--- PAGE 22 ---

genuinely wonder how the jury perceived his comments about the defendant 
on the stand. E ighteen random members of the public, who had no little or 
no familiarity with FTX , crypto, B ankman-Fried or being on a jury, may well 
have easily taken cues from the most visible legal expert who ran the show. . . 
. B ankman-Fried didn't quite seem to grasp how his demeanor and responses 
were received by the judge and jury” (C oinDesk)
B ut as with the crumpled cargo shorts, this was just SB F being SB F. One 
journalist observed in May 2022, for example, “B ankman-Fried doesn’t mind the 
question, but he would like it clarified. . . . [SB F] stares fixedly into the ocean . . . 
B y this point he is asking the questions and answering them, and I am just sipping 
my drink. . . . B ankman-Fried toys with my question as much as he is playing with 
his salad” (Financial Times). Following FTX ’s collapse, however, reporters changed 
their tone: “Prosecutor calls out Sam B ankman-Fried for fidgeting” (C NB C ); 
“[SB F had] a relatively muted tone, sparse eye contact and lots of details he was 
never asked to give” (B lockworks); “[SB F] was obviously evading questions, trying 
to pour forth verbiage to distract Sassoon from what she’d asked” (The Verge).
This conversational style is common among autistic people. “[SB F] has had a 
diagnosis of ASD  that was previously shared with the court. . . . [An autistic 
person might] be judged to be lying or evasive due to lack of eye contact, or 
answers that seem non-responsive. . . . [T]hey might repeat themselves or become 
obsessed on an issue, something we call perseveration. They might become 
particularly focused on minute details that others find irrelevant, something we 
call hyperfocus” (disability rights advocate). “[T]ypical diagnostic behaviors . . . can 
mislead an investigator, attorney, or judge. They may see someone who seems to 
lack respect and observe a ‘rude, fidgety and belligerent’ person who, by nature of 
his lack of eye contact and evasive conversation, appears to have something to 
hide. . . . [You] need to repeat and rephrase questions” (Judge Taylor et al.). The 
lack of respect for SB F’s neurodivergence may have also caused him to suffer 
withdrawal during trial: “B ankman-Fried was diagnosed with AD HD  and 
depression years ago . . . [SB F] has been doing his best to remain focused during 
the trial for the past two weeks, despite not having his prescribed dose of Adderall 
during trial hours. . . . [His] dose of Adderall in the early mornings . . . would wear 
off by the time the trial began” (B usiness Insider).
5 . SB F was genuinely in favor of (good) regulation
SB F’s “f—  regulators” comment is regularly taken out of its context: “f—  
regulators / they make everything worse / they don't protect customers at all / . . . 
/ it would be good / but regulators can't do it / they can't actually distinguish 
between good and bad / just ‘do more business’ vs ‘do less business’ and ‘put up 
more moats’ vs ‘put up fewer moats’” (Vox). SB F expanded on this at trial: “I was 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 22/29


--- PAGE 23 ---

somewhat frustrated [and] felt like all the work that I had done to work with 
regulators might have ended up encouraging bad regulation as much as good 
regulation in retrospect” (trial transcript).
Furthermore, despite widespread assumptions to the contrary, FTX  moved to The 
B ahamas to pursue regulation —  not to avoid it. “[SB F] says they moved to the 
B ahamas mostly because it was one of a handful of countries that had a ‘full 
regulatory framework’ for crypto. The B ahamas had been positioning itself at that 
time as a crypto haven” (B loomberg). “‘W e have been shocked at the ignorance of 
those who assert that FTX  came to the B ahamas because they did not want to 
submit to regulatory scrutiny,’ said Ryan P inder, the country's attorney general and 
Minister of L egal Affairs on Sunday. ‘In fact, the world is full of countries in 
which there is no legislative or regulatory authority over the crypto and digital 
asset business, but the B ahamas is not one of these countries’” (TheStreet).
6 . Profits from arbitrage covered all of SB F's personal spending, borrowing,
and donating
“B ankman-Fried says he believed he was permitted to borrow from Alameda as a 
primary owner. ‘It usually came because there was an investment I needed to make 
and a I needed capital for, so I would generally borrow funds from Alameda for it,’ 
he says. ‘It had a few billion dollars of arbitrage-based profit over the prior two 
years. I saw no reason I couldn’t borrow from it.’ . . . B ankman-Fried says he 
discussed with lawyers that some people didn’t want the investments to come 
directly from Alameda. He says attorneys told him an option was to get a loan 
from the company and make the investment himself. He says lawyers structured 
the loans” (B loomberg).
“My personal consumption was a tiny fraction of my earnings, and my 
consumption, donations, and investments combined were less than— and came 
from— earnings” (Substack).
7. "The ethics stuff" was not just P R
W hile SB F did say that “the ethics stuff” was “mostly a front,” he immediately 
added, “that's not all of it,” and clarified that he thought “E SG has been perverted 
beyond recognition” and was frustrated was with “this dumb game we woke 
westerners play where we say all the right shiboleths and so everyone likes us” 
(Vox). He later elaborated: “[T]here are a lot of things that I think have really a 
massive impact on the world. And ultimately, that’s what I care about the most. . . . 
Separately from that, there is a bunch of bullshit that regulated companies do to 
try and look good. . . . if like three different quarterbacks throw a touchdown in 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 23/29


--- PAGE 24 ---

the same game for the same team, we will donate two used cars to charity-type 
campaigns. . . . W e thought about ourselves as legitimately trying to do good, but 
we also thought about what we could do to make sure that our image reflected 
that” (New York Times). L uxury cars, for instance, would not have reflected a 
legitimate desire to do good: “I bought [SB F] a B MW  to drive around in and he 
made me sell it and get him a C orolla” (X ).
Much attention has been given to FTX ’s spending on lavish real estate and 
marketing. B ut perhaps the property was simply “sound real-estate investments, 
and B ankman-Fried needed fitting places to host such figures as B ill C linton and 
Tony B lair . . . In a widely amplified story, Fox B usiness reported that B ankman-
Fried owned a yacht; the claim was attributed to a local yachtsman, who said he 
frequently spotted B ankman-Fried at the marina, and B ankman-Fried’s spokesman 
categorically denied that his client had himself ever ‘owned’ a boat” (New Yorker). 
The defense emphasized that “‘the B ahamas real estate was corporate housing for 
FTX  employees.’ FTX , he said, was trying to court top professionals who 
‘uprooted their lives’ to move there when they could just have easily gone to work 
at Google or Facebook” (Guardian). A co-defendant revealed that “Sbf hated flying 
private” (X ) and “hated the penthouse it just had the right number of bedrooms” 
(SB F and nine roommates rented it from FTX ) (X ); he also explained that “there's 
[only] two types of real estate” in The B ahamas —  “this ultra wealthy section” and 
“the impoverished section” (The Tucker C arlson Show). As for the marketing, 
“‘W hen I looked into competitors’ marketing budgets, they appeared to be 100% of 
the revenue,’ B ankman-Fried says. ‘W e were spending 10 to 20% on marketing’ . . . 
Multiple crypto companies . . . ran Super B owl ads” (B loomberg). Far from the jet-
setting life of luxury often portrayed, SB F “didn’t drink or party” (TIM E), “worked 
12 to 22 hours a day, and took one day off every couple of months” (The Verge), 
and never set foot on the “semi-private beach” beneath the penthouse (Going 
Infinite).
SB F has also been criticized for only donating $ 19 0 million to nonprofits in 2022. 
B ut an advisor to the FTX  Foundation says that they “got a lot of criticism for 
scaling up giving too quickly —  so going from zero to one to two hundred million 
in a year is a very big scale-up and is actually just quite hard to do . . . [and] the 
way it seemed to me at the time, and I guess still does just seem to me, was 
basically consistent with someone trying to scale up their giving as fast as they 
can, and in fact . . . plausibly he should have been paying more attention to the 
business and not getting distracted by other things” (M aking Sense with Sam 
Harris).
According to SB F’s psychiatrist, “Sam is on the autism spectrum,” which has 
“impaired his ability to communicate emotions” (George Lerner), a phenomenon 
known as alexithymia. This may explain comments like “There’s a pretty decent 
argument that my empathy is fake, my feelings are fake, my facial reactions are 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 24/29


--- PAGE 25 ---

fake” (The B lock). If an autistic person regularly feels the need to fake emotion to 
fit in, that doesn’t mean they’re not motivated to help others.
To the contrary, letters to the court detail a long history of altruism (court docket): 
SB F’s executive assistant says he “never acted out of greed or self-interest” and 
that he “consistently demonstrated a commitment to ethical business practices and 
a genuine desire to make a positive impact on the world”; a Rwandan charity 
advisor comments on how SB F was “well-informed of Africa’s unique challenges” 
and lamented how much the media coverage was “littered with claims I knew were 
false”; a crypto skeptic suggests this is “the first time in the entire history of 
criminal justice where the defendant donated most of his earnings at his previous 
job to charity”; an FTX  victim notes how SB F “cared about chickens in university” 
even though “people hate animal rights activists”; and SB F’s family write, “he has 
never felt happiness or pleasure in his life and does not think he is capable of 
feeling it” and “He wouldn’t make small talk about your dog, but he’d subsist on 
bread and water in prison to avoid eating an animal. He was never good at 
apologizing, but always quick to admit fault. He would be uncomfortable giving 
me a hug, but I know he would give me a kidney if I needed one.”
8 . Innocence and remorse are not mutually exclusive
“[SB F] has shown an immense amount of remorse and regret for whatever 
mistakes he made . . . I am not use to this; every other person that I have 
interacted with here places the blame on someone else” (ex-NYPD cellmate).
“I should have been on top of this and I feel really, really bad and regretful that I 
wasn’t and a lot of people got hurt and that’s on me” (Forbes). “I was C .E .O. of 
FTX , and that means whatever happened, why ever it happened— I had a duty. I 
had a duty to all of our stakeholders, to our customers, our creditors. I had a duty 
to our employees, to our investors and to the regulators of the world to do right by 
them and make sure the right things happened at the company. And clearly, I did 
not do a good job with that. C learly I made a lot of mistakes. There are things I 
would give anything to be able to do over again. I did not ever try to commit fraud 
on anyone” (New York Times).
“‘I'm haunted, every day, by what was lost . . . It's most of what I think about each 
day . . . I never thought that what I was doing was illegal. B ut I tried to hold 
myself to a high standard, and I certainly didn't meet that standard’ . . . B ankman-
Fried said Sunday that ‘of course’ he is remorseful. ‘I've heard and seen the despair, 
frustration and sense of betrayal from thousands of customers; they deserve to be 
paid in full, at current price,’ he said. . . . He added that he ‘felt the pain’ from co-
workers as he ‘threw away what they poured their lives into’ and from the charities 
he supported ‘as their funding turned into nothing but reputational damage. . . . I 
never intended to hurt anyone or take anyone's money. B ut I was the C E O of 
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 25/29


--- PAGE 26 ---

❖  THE BIG PICTURE ❖
It’s easy to forget what we would have expected to see, but didn’t
Prosecutors claimed that their witnesses “stole customer money at the defendant's 
direction” (trial transcript). And yet “none of [said witnesses] testified that he told 
them to steal money or commit crimes” (Quartz). More broadly, “none of the 
witnesses at this trial testified that Sam told them or directed them to violate the 
law or said or did anything that showed he thought he was violating the law” (trial
transcript). Neither could the prosecution produce any other evidence to this 
effect, despite extensive access to —  and help investigating —  FTX ’s people and 
data: “[W ]e would do whatever the Government requested relative to cooperation. 
. . . [such as providing] full access to the information on a real time basis . . . W e’ve 
provided an analysis of several hundred thousand documents. W e’ve interviewed 
and received proffers of 24 current and former employees” (John Ray, bankruptcy
hearing). (The defense, on the other hand, was not so fortunate.)
“If B ankman-Fried were such a criminal mastermind, C ohen asked the jurors, ‘why 
would he go before C ongress and subject himself to public questioning? . . . These 
were extremely wealthy people’ who could have, at any time between 2020 and 
2022, when the alleged crimes were happening, taken their money and run. They 
could have cashed out, notified authorities, hired lawyers. B ut none of them did, 
C ohen said. B ecause in the moment, ‘they don’t think they’re doing anything 
wrong’” (C NN).
E ven in the period between FTX ’s collapse and SB F’s arrest, “[d]uring those five 
weeks, as far as I am aware Sam was free to leave the B ahamas for a jurisdiction 
without an extradition treaty with the U S . . . He was resolute that he would not 
leave as long as he thought he could do some good by staying . . . He had no 
patience for conversations about defending himself” (ex-Head of Data Science at
FTX ).
The justice system is vulnerable to abuse
“Sam B ankman-Fried was never presumed innocent. He was presumed guilty—
before he was even charged. He was presumed guilty by the media. He was
presumed guilty by the FTX  debtor estate and its lawyers. He was presumed guilty
by federal prosecutors eager for quick headlines. And he was presumed guilty by
the judge who presided over his trial.”
— SB F's appeal brief
FTX , I was responsible for what happened to the company, and when you're 
responsible it doesn't matter why it goes bad. I'd give anything to be able to help 
repair even part of the damage. I'm doing what I can from prison, but it's deeply 
frustrating not to be able to do more,’ he said” (AB C  News).
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 26/29


--- PAGE 27 ---

W hy did SB F’s colleagues plead guilty and testify against him? According to 
prosecutors, they “agreed to testify in the hope of receiving a shorter sentence” 
(trial transcript). B ut they may have also pled guilty out of self-interest regardless 
of whether or not they were, in fact, guilty.
The prosecutor has more control over life, liberty, and reputation than 
any other person in America. . . . He can have citizens investigated . . . 
to the tune of public statements and veiled or unveiled intimations. Or 
the prosecutor may choose a more subtle course and simply have a 
citizen’s friends interviewed. The prosecutor can order arrests, present 
cases to the grand jury in secret session, and on the basis of his one-
sided presentation of the facts, can cause the citizen to be indicted and 
held for trial. . . . [A] prosecutor stands a fair chance of finding at least 
a technical violation of some act on the part of almost anyone. In such a 
case, it is not a question of discovering the commission of a crime and 
then looking for the man who has committed it, it is a question of 
picking the man and then searching the law books, or putting 
investigators to work, to pin some offense on him. . . . [T]he real crime 
becomes that of being unpopular with the predominant or governing 
group, being attached to the wrong political views, or being personally 
obnoxious”
—  Robert H. Jackson, Attorney General of the Unites States (1940-1941)
One co-defendant, however, refused to testify against SB F, later calling the trial 
“one sided coerced legal theater provided by people willing to say anything to stay 
out of prison[, m]uch of it not rooted in reality” (X ). Regretfully, he also let fear of 
retribution from the D OJ prevent him from testifying in SB F’s defense, and said 
that “a lot of people aren't speaking up about the FTX  situation because they're 
still waiting to settle with the bankruptcy estate” (The Tucker C arlson Show). The 
estate, allegedly, “worked hand-in-glove with the prosecutors to charge and 
imprison B ankman-Fried, in ways that far exceeded normal ‘cooperation’” (SB F’s
appeal).
According to Michael L ewis, some witnesses for the prosecution thought SB F was 
innocent: “I saw the prosecutor's list of witnesses, and it maps on to the characters 
in the book in the most extraordinary way. . . . And I'm in touch with most of 
these characters. I've been interviewing them since it all fell apart. And they've 
told me what they're going to say, and some of them have said to me, I think Sam 
is innocent” (Washington Post).
W as this trial ever about justice — or was it about politics?
C RY P TO GOE S ON TRIAL  AL ONGSID E  SB F
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 27/29


--- PAGE 28 ---

—  Financial Times headline
W hen a major company implodes, there’s always pressure to find a villain; 
understandably, the C E O becomes the lightning rod by default. In the case of 
FTX , that C E O also happened to be the ‘white knight’ of a sector the U .S. 
government had begun to wage war on. Yes, he’d been a top D emocratic donor, but 
it was just coming to light that he’d been giving similar amounts in dark money to 
Republicans. The political calculus had shifted. (The D OJ’s press release following 
SB F’s sentencing suggests this was still a sore point more than a year later —  he 
hadn’t been convicted of a campaign finance charge, yet the statement claimed he 
“took FTX  customer funds for . . . millions of dollars of political contributions to 
candidates from both parties.”)
From the moment SB F handed control of FTX  to his lawyers, the narrative was 
locked in: C rypto’s poster boy had squandered billions of his customers’ money 
gambling on sh*tcoins and partying with celebrities in the C aribbean! The ‘quirky, 
genius philanthropist’ persona was all a con! Never mind those technical details 
like ‘peer-to-peer margin lending’ or ‘illiquid but solvent,’ or the challenges of 
trying to innovate in a regulatory gray zone —  in the confident words of the U .S. 
Attorney for S.D .N.Y. one month later, “this was not a case of mismanagement or 
poor oversight, but of intentional fraud, plain and simple” (DOJ website).
Or so we were told, anyway.
The D epartment of Justice is not a digital assets regulator. However, the 
prior Administration used the Justice D epartment to pursue a reckless 
strategy of regulation by prosecution, which was ill conceived and 
poorly executed.
—  U.S. Deputy Attorney General, April 2025
SB F was a proxy for a movement that threatened entrenched financial interests. 
His 25 -year sentence was a warning. A shot across the bow of an industry built on 
decentralization, transparency, and autonomy. W hen the jury reached their verdict, 
the U .S. Attorney General announced, “This case should send a clear message to 
anyone who tries to hide their crimes behind a shiny new thing” (DOJ website). 
Perhaps the administration’s real message was simply “to anyone who tries . . . a 
shiny new thing.”
In the end, it wasn’t just SB F’s freedom on the line, but also the reputation of an 
entire industry. And the verdict reverberates far beyond a Manhattan courtroom.
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 28/29


--- PAGE 29 ---

Contact
◭
On November 4, 2025 , a three-judge panel heard SB F’s appeal. The panel will 
likely decide whether to grant a retrial in early 2026 .
W HAT NOW ?
25/04/2026, 18:10 Free SBF: Sam Bankman-Fried's Side of the FTX Story
https://freesbf.org 29/29