

--- PAGE 1 ---




--- PAGE 2 ---




--- PAGE 3 ---

hen I first started chasing around after Sam Bankman-
Fried, I had no idea where he might lead me. I certainly
had no sense that I’d wind up with a ringside seat to a
financial catastrophe. I had no slant or angle, much less a theory of the
case. I was just curious about Sam and his bizarre situation. Inside of
three years, he’d gone from socially and emotionally isolated 25-year-old
with an upper-middle-class bank account to leader of a small army of
math nerds and (according to Forbes magazine) not merely the world’s
richest person under 30 but maybe the fastest creator of wealth in
recorded history. The leaders of the Republican and Democratic parties
solicited his money and his thoughts. The heads of big Wall Street banks
felt a need to know him, and the leading Silicon Valley venture
capitalists felt a need to invest in him. Tom Brady was hanging out with


--- PAGE 4 ---

him, Taylor Swift was negotiating to endorse his crypto exchange,
Shaquille O’Neal wanted to partner with him to solve the homeless
problem in the Bahamas, and Orlando Bloom was asking to play him in
a movie. He’d gone from having no friends as a child to having too many
as an adult without ever developing a capacity for friendship.
It wasn’t clear if there was a story in any of this, or what the story might
be, but I assumed that if I insinuated myself into the life of Sam
Bankman-Fried, something would happen and a story might reveal
itself. And, well, something happened.
A comedy with a tragic ending: By the time I began writing the book,
that’s what I thought I had on my hands. I started on the last day of
January 2023, or roughly a month after Sam had been extradited from
the Bahamas to the United States and placed under house arrest at his
parents’ home on the campus of Stanford University. It was published in
hardcover in early October, the same day jurors were selected for Sam’s
trial in a federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan.


--- PAGE 5 ---

All of this seemed to me just about ideal, at least for my narrow
purposes. By trapping my main character inside a home an hour from
my own, the legal authorities enabled me access to him that would have
been difficult to replicate in the wild. Publication a day before the trial
opened allowed the book to interact with the event without interfering
with it.
Of course, I didn’t really imagine that the book should influence the
legal outcome. Neither side was particularly interested in a full and rich
account of events, and I was uneasy with how both might distort
whatever they found useful for their purposes. But I did like the idea of,
This essay was adapted from the updated paperback
edition of “Going Infinite: The Rise and Fall of a New
Tycoon,” by Michael Lewis, which will be published later
this month by W.W. Norton & Company. Reprinted by
permission of W.W. Norton & Company. All rights
reserved. The audio version of “Going Infinite” was
created by Audible and is reproduced with permission.


--- PAGE 6 ---

in effect, putting readers in the jury box. The rules of evidence in
narrative nonfiction are looser than in federal criminal trials.
And I thought that a fuller description of events might enable a reader to
render a verdict more nuanced than “innocent” or “guilty.” Which isn’t
to say that I expected every reader to render the same verdict. The joy of
the story was that they wouldn’t. It was too messy for that.
The trial was less messy. The two sides actually agreed upon many
important facts. They agreed, for example, that Alameda Research was
consistently profitable in its day-to-day trading activities. They also
agreed that FTX had been a real business, with revenue that had grown
from roughly $20 million in 2019 to roughly $1 billion in 2021. Also,
that when FTX first opened, it was unable to obtain its own bank
accounts and so directed its customers to wire their deposits into bank
accounts controlled by Alameda Research. (No one explained why the
customers — among them some of the world’s most sophisticated
trading firms — didn’t complain about wiring the money to the wrong
place.) No one disputed that, right from the start, Alameda Research
also had the ability to borrow effectively unlimited sums from FTX. And
that between these two mechanisms, most of the $15 billion FTX’s
customers deposited on the exchange came to rest inside Sam’s private


--- PAGE 7 ---

trading firm. Both sides also appeared to agree that for an amazingly
long time, this commingling of customer funds with Sam’s didn’t
register with the people who ran FTX and Alameda Research as a hugely
important fact. For most of its life, Alameda Research held more than
enough in liquid assets to cope with any run on FTX. That is, if all the
depositors had turned up at once and asked for their money back, they
likely could have had it.
The two sides also agreed on when this ceased to be true: mid-June of
2022. A month-long free fall in crypto prices had created panic in the
market. Alameda Research had suffered big losses, or rather a reversal
of the huge gains it had made on a bunch of crypto tokens (Solana,
Serum, FTX Token) that Sam had bought for next to nothing. Elsewhere
in cryptoland, investors who had deposited their crypto in unregulated
“banks” (Genesis was the big one) were pulling their money out. The
crypto banks had loaned roughly $10 billion of that money to Alameda
Research and accepted Sam’s tokens as collateral. In mid-June, they
asked for their money back. By then Sam had plowed much of the
money he’d borrowed into a weird grab bag of assets: Elon Musk’s
SpaceX, the AI company Anthropic, a bitcoin-mining company, a liquor
company owned by the Kardashians and hundreds of other private
companies. The one trait these assets shared was an inability to be sold


--- PAGE 8 ---

quickly. Lacking its own funds to repay its crypto lenders, Alameda
Research used the funds belonging to FTX’s customers.
This was obviously bad. Sam and his companies had crossed one red
line back in 2019 when they warehoused FTX customer deposits inside
Alameda Research. They crossed a much brighter one when they put
those deposits at risk. By late June 2022, had FTX’s customers all
turned up and asked for their money back, FTX wouldn’t have been able
to repay them. Roughly $8 billion of it was effectively tied up in Sam’s



--- PAGE 9 ---

private investments or in other Alameda Research trades. In effect, Sam
Bankman-Fried had yoked a profitable crypto exchange to a profitable
private trading firm and turned them into a medium-size bank. The
Bank of Sam had several odd features. It invested in far riskier assets
than banks typically buy. It was totally unregulated. It had no deposit
insurance or other protections usually offered to customers. And its
depositors were unaware of the bank’s existence.
The issue wasn’t so much what had happened, but how and why. What
had Sam Bankman-Fried known, and when had he known it? What had
Sam Bankman-Fried intentionally done with his customers’ deposits,
and why had he done it? Here the defense and prosecution parted ways,
never to reunite. Sam’s lawyers sought to persuade the jury that their
perpetually distracted client never really knew that he had roughly $10
billion of other people’s money in his own private trading firm — and
that, even if he had realized it, he had a right to invest the money as he
pleased. The federal prosecutors argued that Sam had known from the
start where the money was and that FTX was a complex criminal scheme
cooked up by a deeply deceitful person to steal it.


--- PAGE 10 ---




--- PAGE 11 ---

here was never any doubt which side had the stronger case.
(Before the trial, Sam put his odds of victory at 10-1 against.)
What little suspense that existed at the start of the trial
vanished after Gary Wang, FTX’s chief technology officer, testified. Gary
started by confessing to all the crimes the prosecutors wanted him to
confess to. He went on to make it clear that Sam had known all along
that the money was in the wrong place. And then he was done and gone
and replaced by Caroline Ellison, who finished the prosecution’s job.
Caroline was the trial’s most important witness. She’d been CEO of
Alameda Research. If Sam was not responsible for what had happened,
Caroline arguably was. And so she also had the most to gain from Sam
being held responsible.
Caroline explained to the jury how the crypto lenders had asked her for
a quick and dirty picture of Alameda Research’s finances. And how, on
June 18, on Sam’s instructions, she cooked up eight different balance
sheets of varying degrees of dishonesty and presented them to Sam, who
selected the least honest of the bunch to show his lenders.


--- PAGE 12 ---

“Q. In the course of working with the defendant, did he talk to you about
the ethics of lying and stealing? A. Yeah. He said that he was a utilitarian,
and he believed that the ways that people tried to justify rules like don’t lie
and don’t steal within utilitarianism didn’t work, and he thought that the
only moral rule that mattered was doing whatever would maximize utility
— so essentially trying to create the greatest good for the greatest number
of people or beings.”
The prosecutors didn’t need Sam’s help. Sam helped them anyway by
ignoring the counsel of his lawyers and testifying on his own behalf.
When confronted by older experts in some complicated field in which he
had zero experience, Sam’s first step was always to doubt the value of
their advice and think about the complicated field on his own. When this
approach worked, it really worked. But after he took the stand, it was
clear he had no idea what he was doing. It seemed he’d somehow
decided, for example, that it was a good idea to respond to the
prosecutors’ questions about his life by not remembering any of it.
Events that any normal person would never forget — say, whether he’d
flown in a private jet to the 2022 Super Bowl or dined with Bill Clinton
and the prime minister of the Bahamas — Sam was suddenly hazy about.


--- PAGE 13 ---

Real-life Sam Bankman-Fried could be breathtakingly persuasive. There
was a reason so many smart professional investors and traders
entrusted him with billions of dollars. Witness stand Sam Bankman-
Fried was so incredible that the jury must have wondered how any idiot
ever trusted him with a satoshi. As Lewis Kaplan, the federal judge who
presided over the case, said later: “When he wasn’t outright lying, he
was often evasive, hairsplitting, dodging questions and trying to get the
prosecutor to reword questions in ways that he could answer in ways he
thought less harmful than a truthful answer to the question that was
posed would have been. I’ve been doing this job for close to 30 years.
I’ve never seen a performance quite like that.”


--- PAGE 14 ---

The judge spoke those words in his courtroom at Sam’s sentencing, five
months after the trial. The sentencing was more of a cliffhanger than the
trial. Even the kindest interpretation of what Sam had done left $11
billion or so of other people’s money being risked without their consent
and $8.7 billion in missing customer deposits. (The judge deemed
inadmissible any evidence that FTX’s customers might get their money
back.) It was difficult to see any juror voting to do anything but convict.
All the suspense in Sam’s case was in how you felt about it. How you felt
about him.


--- PAGE 15 ---

Back in 1984, an entity called the U.S. Sentencing Commission
established guidelines for all noncapital crimes. These sound very
precise and almost scientific, but they’re maybe best-loved by judges
who would rather not have to think too hard about a case. Judge Kaplan
clearly loved thinking about Sam’s case and began by tossing the
guidelines out the courtroom window. After that, he could do whatever
he felt like doing, short of sentencing Sam to death. He could let him off
with time served. He could also put him away for life. And his decision
about what to do with Sam was going to reflect how he felt about him.
And so on that morning of March 28, 2024, the judge ordered Sam to
rise so that he might address him directly. Two hours or so earlier, Sam
had shuffled into the courtroom in prison khakis with his head down
and his hands oddly clasped behind his back. Just before he’d entered,
his guards had told him he was meant to be wearing handcuffs and
asked if he could create the impression that he was doing so. It was very
SBF, this: for the authorities to realize he should be constrained, but too
late, and for Sam to meekly and pointlessly comply. Now, with his hands
in front of him, Sam rose to listen to his fate.
Picking and choosing from the thousands of pages of trial testimony,
Judge Kaplan then told the story of Sam Bankman-Fried. The exercise


--- PAGE 16 ---

wasn’t very different from what I had done to write a book about Sam
Bankman-Fried. Of course, I had a lot more material to work with. I’d
seen much of what had gone down with my own eyes and interviewed all
the main characters, along with scores of extras, over and again, in good
times and bad. The judge had to go on mainly what he’d heard in the
courtroom.
He opened with Sam’s childhood. The judge’s interest in the subject was
different from mine. I was mainly interested in how socially isolated and
peculiar Sam had been as a child; the judge was mainly interested in
how many privileges Sam had enjoyed. But then he added this:
“And he suffers from autism, which is a condition that affects different
afflicted persons very differently, frequently. He, I gather, is what one
would call a very high-achieving autistic person, which means, among
other things, that he’s capable of huge accomplishments, and he has
frequently a social awkwardness and a way of interacting with people
that’s unusual and sometimes off-putting. I take that all as a given.”
I’d left it to the reader to figure out what spectrum, if any, Sam was on.
I’m still unsure. He exhibited some unusual mannerisms. His knee
bounced and his eyes darted around when he spoke, and unless he got
lucky and stumbled into a wholly absorbing topic, he seemed always to


--- PAGE 17 ---

be thinking about three things at once. But he’d only been diagnosed
with autism, in a bid for sympathy, in the summer of 2023. And he had
qualities — a deep sense of irony, for example — not typically associated
with the diagnosis. I imagine that one day, when the human brain is
better understood, someone might revisit Sam’s case and say, “I can see
why they thought he was autistic, but this is what it actually was.”
At any rate, as the judge proceeded it became clear that he thought that
whatever afflicted Sam was beside the point. The point was that Sam



--- PAGE 18 ---

had broken the law, caused a lot of pain, failed to express remorse and
perjured himself in the bargain. Sam’s motive, the judge decided, wasn’t
the usual desire for money. “He did it because he wanted to be a hugely,
hugely politically influential person in this country,” he said. Before
handing Sam his sentence, he dwelled for a moment on the deeper why
of the case. He said he’d realized something important while listening to
Caroline Ellison testify. Then he picked up the transcript of her
testimony and read:
“Q. During your time working with the defendant, how, if at all, did he
describe his approach to risk-taking? A. He described himself as truly risk-
neutral, meaning that most people are risk-averse, meaning that they
would rather not take a risk if they don’t have to, or they try to avoid risks.
But he said that he was totally comfortable taking a risk as long as he
thought it was a positive EV.
Q. What do you mean by “positive EV”? A. “EV” stands for “expected
value,” so that was a term that we used a lot when talking about trading. So,
yeah, positive EV just means that sort of, on average, you expect it to pay
off well, even if maybe there are lots of cases where you will end up with


--- PAGE 19 ---

zero, or you’ll end up losing lots of money, because there are, like, some
cases where you make a lot of money.
Q. Did the defendant ever give any example to describe his approach to
risk-taking? A. Yeah. He talked about being willing to take large coin flips,
like a coin flip where if it comes up tails, you might lose $10 million. But if
it comes up heads, you make slightly more than $10 million.
Q. Did he ever give other coin-flip examples? A. Yeah. I guess he also talked
about this in the context of thinking about what was good for the world,
saying that he would be happy to flip a coin if it came up tails and the world
was destroyed — as long as if it came up heads, the world would be, like,
more than twice as good.”
“In other words,” said the judge, “a man willing to flip a coin as to the
continued existence of life and civilization on Earth, if the chances were
imperceptibly greater that it would come out without that catastrophic
outcome, that’s really a leitmotif in my judgment of this entire case. …
It’s his nature.” Because it was his nature, the judge concluded, Sam
would, if given the chance, do something like what he had just done all
over again. “There is a risk that this man will be in a position to do
something very bad in the future, and it’s not a trivial risk, not a trivial


--- PAGE 20 ---

risk at all,” said the judge. “So, in part, my sentence will be for the
purpose of disabling him.” He then sentenced Sam to 25 years in prison,
with no possibility of parole.
A few minutes later, Sam dutifully clasped his hands behind his back
and shuffled out of the courtroom.



--- PAGE 21 ---

he mind has a gift for cleansing the past of uncertainty.
However unlikely what just happened might have been —
however contingent on luck and unhappy accident — it can
eventually be made to feel as if it had been always inevitable. A story
gets told that makes some event no one had forecast feel as if it were
entirely predictable. This purging from reality of lots of messy facts
began the moment FTX collapsed. By the time of Sam’s trial, the
government was able to sell ideas about him that would have struck any
of his closest colleagues as preposterous. The suggestion, for example,
that everything about Sam’s appearance had been carefully curated to
trick people. The government used Caroline Ellison’s testimony to push
this line:
“Q. How would you describe the defendant’s personal appearance
throughout 2022? What, if anything, did he tell you about that?
A. He said he thought his hair had been very valuable. He said ever since
Jane Street, he thought he had gotten higher bonuses because of his hair
and that it was an important part of FTX’s narrative and image.”


--- PAGE 22 ---

If Sam Bankman-Fried’s appearance was an act, it was an act he’d
performed his entire life. Former schoolmates who came upon Sam after
he’d become a billionaire took one look at him and said, “Same guy.” His
“look” couldn’t have been more sincere. He was as good as born with an
indifference not just to his own appearance but to other people’s, too —
and to art, nature and almost every source of beauty that in most people
triggers an emotional response. At some point after he became a public
figure — a thing he’d never expected to be — he no doubt noticed that
other people seemed to be charmed by his look. His realization would
have relieved him of any pressure to alter his appearance. But that’s
different from creating a persona to deceive others. It’s more like
ChatGPT-4o realizing that the way it just answered a question caused
humans to laugh — and thus must be a joke.



--- PAGE 23 ---

The effect of the trial was to confine Sam Bankman-Fried to yet another
box on a shelf next to identical boxes marked “fraud” and deter anyone
from taking an honest interest in him. But even after the trial, I still
found him interesting. There were lots of messy bits about his case that
made it hard to squeeze into any of the usual boxes. For example: If he
knew he’d orchestrated a giant fraud, why had he devoted so much time
and energy to persuading U.S. financial regulators to regulate him? Why
hadn’t Sam squirreled away a pile of money in some secret account for
himself? Why hadn’t he followed every other shady crypto dude and fled
to Dubai? The answers to these questions were irrelevant to his legal
fate. They just cluttered the neat picture lots of people seemed to want to
paint of him.
The most obvious bit that didn’t fit into the picture surfaced a few weeks
after his sentencing. On May 7, 2024, John Ray, FTX’s new CEO,
revealed to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware that,
against the $8.7 billion in missing customer deposits, FTX was now


--- PAGE 24 ---

sitting on something like $14.5 to $16.3 billion. Whatever the exact sum,
it was enough to repay all depositors and various other creditors at least
118 cents on the dollar — that is, everyone who imagined they had lost
money back in November 2022 would get their money back, with
interest. After paying off FTX’s debts — and paying themselves at least
half a billion dollars — Ray and his team will likely still be sitting on
billions of dollars. How many billions of dollars is still an open question,
but very few of these dollars can be the result of Ray’s various lawsuits
to claw back money paid out by FTX in good times. The money came
almost entirely from a fire sale of the contents of Sam Bankman-Fried’s
dragon’s lair.
The success of the bankruptcy clearly surprised, and maybe even
alarmed, the lawyers running it. Months after Sam Bankman-Fried
handed him the company, Ray had been keen to stress how little of
value he’d been given. More than a little bizarrely, he talked down the
value of the assets he was meant to dispose of to repay creditors. Ray
called the 20 percent stake Sam had acquired in Anthropic “worthless.”
The giant pile of Solana tokens Sam had acquired for pennies were
“shitcoins” whose value had been falsely inflated by Sam’s purchases.
The Anthropic stake has wound up being worth billions. The Solana
token, even without Alameda Research around to prop it up, popped


--- PAGE 25 ---

back up from roughly $10 at the end of 2022 to $150 a year and a half
later. To this day, Ray hasn’t spoken to Sam Bankman-Fried. It’s hard
not to wonder, if they had simply called Sam, what else the lawyers
running the FTX bankruptcy might have learned about the contents of
his lair. Also, how much more money would be on hand if, for their first
18 months on the job, the bankruptcy lawyers had simply not shown up
for work.



--- PAGE 26 ---

From the moment Sam Bankman-Fried’s empire collapsed, lots of
people were obviously angry with him, and others found a ready market
in the stoking of outrage. It was a decent rule of thumb that the people
who got worked up in public about Sam Bankman-Fried were vulnerable
to questions about their own behavior: owners of crypto exchanges,
squirrelly financial people, dubious crypto Twitter journalists. If you had
asked these people in late November 2022 why they were so angry, they
would likely have said something like, “He stole people’s money.” If you
had further asked them if they would feel any less angry if that money
were repaid, with interest, a lot of these people would have said
something like: “First, that’s nonsense. Claims on FTX are trading at 3
cents on the dollar. No way people are getting their money back. But if
in some strange alternate universe all the money and more were found,
well, of course I’d feel a bit differently. How could I not?” All the money
and more has been found, and it’s not clear whether the people who
were most outraged at the outset feel differently. The people who have
made a living selling into the outrage don’t seem much affected.


--- PAGE 27 ---

ne strange fact: No one guessed Sam’s crime before the
market exposed it. Of course, there were plenty of people
willing to say that there was something fishy about the
relationship between FTX and Alameda Research. That doesn’t count,
especially in crypto, where the best guess is always that something fishy
is going on. No one — not one single person — said, “He’s got the
customers’ deposits in his private trading firm.” There is a reason for


--- PAGE 28 ---

this, I think: The crime made no sense. It still makes no sense. The
crime was unnecessary to the business in a way that, say, Bernie
Madoff’s was not (which is why people guessed Madoff’s crime before it
was exposed). A corollary to this point is that there are many ways it
might have been avoided and FTX might have survived. The most
obvious of these came in June 2022, when the crypto banks that lent
roughly $10 billion to Alameda Research asked for their money back. If
someone had called them at that moment and said something like,
“Sorry, Sam used your money to make billions of dollars’ worth of
illiquid venture capital investments; you can either wait for us to sell
what he bought or sue us — but if you sue us, you are less likely to get
your money back,” Alameda Research possibly fails, but FTX survives,
and the customers’ money is never in jeopardy.
That doesn’t mean I think that Sam Bankman-Fried is innocent. It
merely informs how I feel about him. I think the truth is closer to “young
person with an intellectually defensible but socially unacceptable moral
code makes a huge mistake in trying to live by it” than “criminal on the
loose in the financial system.” A lot of what I’ve written about is nearly
as much an indictment of regulators and venture capitalists and crypto
culture and the wider world that instantly gathers around huge piles of


--- PAGE 29 ---

money without asking too many questions as it is of the founders of
FTX.
Sam was always encouraged to think of himself as special — first by his
parents and finally by Jane Street, the trading firm where he got his
start. He took that thought and ran with it. The situation was
complicated by the fact that he was special. His interactions with the
world were invariably peculiar. These interactions, odd as they might be,
often generated teachable moments. They told you something about the
way the world works. But they also exposed his most unsettling trait: a
willingness to subject others to risk without their permission. It
expressed itself most obviously in his willingness to gamble with his
customers’ deposits. But it’s also what allowed him to believe that it
would be smart for him to flip a coin that might wipe out life on Earth.
His crime was of a piece with his character. The character wasn’t the
character of a thief. It was the character of a person numb to risk.
Unable to feel risk himself, he can’t really imagine other people feeling
much at all about the risk he has subjected them to. It’s this absence in
him that leads him, when cast in a certain light, to seem vulnerable.
Easy to kidnap, easy to steal from. It’s this absence that, cast in a
different light, makes him seem like a danger to society. I could be


--- PAGE 30 ---

wrong: Mine is just one more theory of a case complicated enough to
support many theories. And even if I’m right, it’s no excuse. In the end,
some coins should never be flipped.


--- PAGE 31 ---




--- PAGE 32 ---

This conversation is moderated according to The Post's community rules. Please read the
rules before joining the discussion. If you’re experiencing any technical problems, please
contact our customer care team.
All Comments343
Operagarnier 1 minute ago
White America's ability to make excuses for white collar crime that harms
multitudes of people is just amazing. Meanwhile, people committing petty
crimes for survival in this brutal economy get no understanding. A black
woman who was abused as a sex slave when she was 17 yo and killed her
abuser just received 11 yrs in jail. Where is all if your psychological analysis
and understanding when the defendant is black and desperate?

Darkness12314 minutes ago
Regulates don't regulate wonderkid who is blind to risk, and blind to
responsibility to others.  at someone has no real idea what they are doing
= disaster, that paid o 
What a strange tail

Newest 
Comments



--- PAGE 33 ---

Annonn 8 minutes ago
I used to enjoy reading Michael Lewis. But I lost all respect for him when he
attacked Michael Oher for his very legitimate criticism of the Tuohy family's
conduct. Instead Lewis doubled down on the position that neither he nor
his good buddy Sean Touhy had anything to regret.

RIP Holy Family School 12 minutes ago
No greater example of white privilege than this group. Mom should be in
jail for the political contribution scams and dad should be in jail for cooking
the books - he’s a tax professor from Stanford - he knew better.

altfreq 15 minutes ago
"His crime was of a piece with his character.  e character wasn’t the
character of a thief. It was the character of a person numb to risk.
Unable to feel risk himself, he can’t really imagine other people
feeling much at all about the risk he has subjected them to. It’s this
absence in him that leads him, when cast in a certain light, to seem
vulnerable. Easy to kidnap, easy to steal from. It’s this absence that,
cast in a di erent light, makes him seem like a danger to society. I
could be wrong: Mine is just one more theory of a case complicated
enough to support many theories. And even if I’m right, it’s no excuse.
I th d i h ld b  i d"


--- PAGE 34 ---

In the end, some coins should never be  ipped."
 is seems like a neat bit of trading by Lewis himself, and/or an attempt to
layo  SBF's guilt on his character.
But this analysis (above) is truncated and incomplete.
SBF and the rest of us are still responsible for our character  aws -- along
with the things they lead us to do.
Lewis can't clean SBF up, no matter how many linguistic hoops he jumps
through.

Annonn 16 minutes ago
I used to be a fan of Michael Lewis's work. But when he doubled down in
criticizing response to legitimate criticism of the Tuohy's conduct and his

CGCalif 19 minutes ago
I was shocked, at the publication of Lewis' book and again now, what
abuse the author's getting.  e tenor of most is Lewis' failure to condemn /
judge SBF...but that was half the *point* of the book, that SBF was a
supreme, very talented oddball, and *not* a gri er like Mado  or the guys
behind Enron and Tyco. From the  rst   y pages of Lewis' book it's clear
that SBF is "on the spectrum," which means...what?  at's the question at


--- PAGE 35 ---

the heart of the book -- how do deal with, or cover as a reporter, people
who are as sincere as they are wacky? SBF's early success, using money
provided him by very sophisticated investors, papered over the riskiness of
his bets, and his E ective Altruism naivete -- and Lewis captures that.
What's striking about this update is that SBF's (irresponsible, fraudulent)
investments *have* paid o , with everyone but SBF himself apparently
made  nancially "whole." I don't get the need to "kill the messenger,"
Lewis, who probably understands SBF better than anyone -- and did a good
job communicating that to readers.

BismarckND 22 minutes ago
Isn’t what you describe a sociopath? He simply could not put himself in
anyone else’s shoes.

JayeKaye 26 minutes ago
I am a reasonably smart guy, at leasst when I was young, and I never really
understood crypto. I think I am right.
Smoke and Mirrors.

Cousin Itt 31 minutes ago
Everything seems  ne with this type of activity as long as the asset is going
up! up! up! Just like the 2008 housing bubble. Everybody making money.


--- PAGE 36 ---

Managers and mortgage agents getting wild bonuses. Company stock
through the roof. All that it required was that housing prices continue to go
up. But then....

JWhise 37 minutes ago
I've been waiting for Mr. Lewis' attempt to reconcile his gullibleness over
SBF. Nice try, butt, sorry, but it's not going to work, Mr. Lewis. Accept the
fact that you got him wrong by miles (like, say, the distance to the
Bahamas where you at one time visited and interviewed him).

Walnut Street 37 minutes ago
fascinating. I know some narcissists and Aspergers people who also just
plow fw doing their own thing, rationalizing that they are so wonderful and
"...a utilitarian, and he believed that the ways that people tried to justify
rules like don’t lie and don’t steal within utilitarianism didn’t work."

Ambrose Pill ster 17 minutes ago
Lewis claimed at the end of his book that the money was not stolen, it
was just misplaced somewhere. Untrue. It was gone. It wasn’t
misplaced it was sent to Alameda to pay o  its debts.



--- PAGE 37 ---

Checkoutchannel9 48 minutes ago
It's inevitably a struggle/near-impossibility to explain how property, such as
actual dollars, can be recovered once it's been converted into fantastical
crypto "currency."  is is probably a terrible analogy, but if I stole your
pizza and ate it, and, a er being caught, o ered to give you a unicorn that
"exists" on the internet as restitution, I haven't really repaid you, even if
that unicorn has a notional value of $20 today, $1 tomorrow, $50 dollars
the day a er that, $0.01 the next day, etc.
At some point, you're dealing with two di erent universes for which there
are no equivalencies.

nobodys business 1 minute ago
Self-serving rationalization blather from a mind that can't hold a
thought.

WEST74 43 minutes ago
As long as the unicorn is accepted for payment by others, it will work.
Once the market turns against it and refuses to accept is as a
currency, it is  nished.



--- PAGE 38 ---

Mr Kinch 1 hour ago
I listened with fascination to a fellow describing to another fellow his
rationale for supporting Trump. It was the same utilitarian philosophy that
sunk SBF.
A person’s ethical and moral framework tells more about them than any
other feature of character.  is is especially true if they are asking you to
trust them.
He may not be malicious in Lewis’ view, but he is certainly a danger to
society, regardless of his hairdo.

Punchandjudy 1 hour ago
Funny, the author seems to miss the person while trying to tell us about
the person. In the last paragraph the author illustrates a human who
needs help, not a jail sentence. Can a person who does not, neurologically,
“feel” risk be held accountable in such severe ways for risky behaviour?
Yeah. I’m really not sure. I think it’s a very interesting question for the law.
As usual, Michael Lewis thinks big.

dbard7 57 minutes ago
Absolute gibberish, Punch.
Tryathoughtexperiment- consideragenericautisticindividualwho


--- PAGE 39 ---

Karl W S 1 hour ago
Note for biographer of Mr Lewis: this piece manifests how vested Mr Lewis
is in his own self-image.

NorthSonomaCoast 1 hour ago
Is Michael Lewis still trying to justify his rosy picture of Sam Bankman-
Fried?  e guy is frightening—without empathy, morals, or indeed any
discernible emotion. He’s a crook, pure and simple.
I don’t know what his parents could have done with a child who showed
 f
Try a thought experiment  consider a generic autistic individual who
somehow "does not feel risk" is  ring an assault ri e randomly, in
public.
Would we somehow NOT hold them accountable for the resulting
devastation?
 at is complete nonsense, as is Michael Lewis' piece.

Walnut Street 36 minutes ago
well, pleading insane or psychotic or neurodiverse isn't going to help.



--- PAGE 40 ---

those characteristics early in life. But what they did do when he was an
adult—facilitate his  nancial and electoral crimes—was reprehensible. I
don’t necessarily want to see them prosecuted, as they have su ered
adequately by seeing their son incarcerated and by losing their own ilk
gotten gains.

unclevinny 1 hour ago
I'm so disappointed in Lewis' stubbornness to accept how completely he
got hoodwinked by SBF, just like nearly every other mainstream observer. I
enjoyed the heck out of  e Big Short,  e Fi h Risk, etc, but it's plain now
that ML is better as a storyteller than an analyst.

kenzo_ 1 hour ago (Edited)
 e  nancial regulations implemented a er the great depression have
been slowly and steadily wiped out by the $Billionaires' unrelenting bribes
(laughingly called "campaign donations") to our lawmakers, enabling
unrelenting frauds.
 ese frauds are of such extreme magnitude that we actually have to dip
into the U.S. treasury regularly to prop up the system to avoid another
great depression (rewarding the fraudsters for their massive thievery).
Capitalism without regulation is just Autocracy by another word. And that is
what we have now.  e middle class is almost gone.  e extreme


--- PAGE 41 ---

concentration of wealth we see now will continue to turn the U.S. into a 3rd
world country.
 e Chinese will succeed us (and rightfully so) as the leading socio-
economic system in the world for the next decades and beyond.
It's a done deal.

Montgomery Fisterton 1 hour ago
that's a lot of words to just say "gri er"

Load More
 Top of comments


--- PAGE 42 ---




--- PAGE 43 ---

