

--- PAGE 1 ---

FTX Pre-Mortem OverviewSBFJAN 12, 2023
3 Share
In mid November, FTX International ran into a liquidity crisis.  The FTX saga, at theend of the day, is somewhere between that of Voyager and Celsius.Three things combined together to cause the implosion:a) Over the course of 2021, Alameda’s balance sheet grew to roughly $100b of NetAsset Value, $8b of net borrowing (leverage), and $7b of liquidity on hand.b) Alameda failed to sufficiently hedge its market exposure.  Over the course of2022, a series of large broad market crashes came–in stocks and in crypto–leadingto a ~80% decrease in the market value of its assets.c) In November 2022, an extreme, quick, targeted crash precipitated by the CEO ofBinance made Alameda insolvent.1And then Alameda’s contagion spread to FTX and other places, similarly to how ThreeArrows etc. ultimately impacted Voyager, Genesis, Celsius, BlockFi, Gemini, andothers.  Despite this, very substantial recovery remains potentially available.  FTX US remainsfully solvent and should be able to return all customers’ funds.  FTX International hasmany billions of dollars of assets, and I am dedicating nearly all of my personal assetsto customers.
This post is about FTX International’s (in)solvency.It’s not about FTX US, because FTX US is fully solvent and always has beenWhen I passed FTX US off to Mr. Ray and the Chapter 11 team, it had around+$350m net cash on hand beyond customer balances.  Its funds and customerswere segregated from FTX International.It’s ridiculous that FTX US users haven’t been made whole and gotten their fundsback yet.Here is my record of FTX US’s balance sheet as of when I handed it off:
(I believe that the same likely applies to purely spot customers of FTXInternational.)FTX International was a non-US exchange.  It was run outside the US, regulatedoutside the US, incorporated outside the US, and took non-US customers.(In fact, it was primarily headquartered, run from, and incorporated in TheBahamas, as FTX Digital Markets LTD.)US customers were onboarded to the (still solvent) FTX US exchange. Senators have raised concerns about a potential conflict of interest from Sullivan& Crowell (S&C). Contrary to S&C’s statement that they “had a limited and largelytransactional relationship with FTX”, S&C was one of FTX International’s twoprimary law firms prior to bankruptcy, and was FTX US’s primary law firm. FTXUS’s GC came from S&C, they worked with FTX US in its most importantregulatory application, they worked with FTX International on some of its mostimportant regulatory concerns, and they worked with FTX US on its mostimportant transaction. When I would visit NYC, I would sometimes work out ofS&C’s office.S&C and the GC were the primary parties strong-arming and threatening me intonaming the candidate they themselves chose as CEO of FTX--including for asolvent entity in FTX US--who then filed for Chapter 11 and chose S&C as counselto the debtor entities.Despite its insolvency, and despite processing roughly $5b of withdrawals over itslast few days of operation, FTX International retains significant assets–roughly$8b of assets of varying liquidity as of when Mr. Ray took over.In addition to that, there were numerous potential funding offers–includingsigned LOIs post chapter 11 filing totaling over $4b.  I believe that, had FTXInternational been given a few weeks, it could likely have utilized its illiquid assetsand equity to raise enough financing to make customers substantially whole.Since S&C pressured FTX into Chapter 11 filings, however, I worry that thosepathways may have been abandoned.  Even now, I believe that if FTXInternational were to reboot, there would be a real possibility of customers beingmade substantially whole.  And, further, I believe that all customers with purelyspot trading activity should, and easily could, be made fully whole, with assetsalready on hand.While FTX’s liquidity had started off in 2019 as largely dependent on Alameda, by2022 it had greatly diversified, with Alameda falling to around 2% of volume onFTX.
I didn’t steal funds, and I certainly didn’t stash billions away.  Nearly all of myassets were and still are utilizable to backstop FTX customers.  I have, forinstance, offered to contribute nearly all of my personal shares in Robinhood tocustomers–or 100%, if the Chapter 11 team would honor my D&O legal expenseindemnification.FTX International and Alameda were both legitimately and independentlyprofitable businesses in 2021, each making billions.
275
Summary
Notes



--- PAGE 2 ---

My personal consumption was a tiny fraction of my earnings, and myconsumption, donations, and investments combined were less than—and camefrom—earnings.  Furthermore, FTX’s sponsorships and company real estate wereway less than its revenue, and way less than the amount it raised.  Nonetheless,nearly all of my personal investments are going to customers.  FTX, as a profitableprivate company, spent a small fraction of its revenue and the amount it hadraised on branding and marketing; by contrast, Fanduels, Draft Kings, Coinbase,and Robinhood–all publicly listed, unprofitable companies–each spent far morethan FTX did on marketing and branding.  And the totality of the real estatepurchases made by FTX–purchases made to entice a highly competitive workforceto move from the Bay Area and New York–represent roughly 10% of the amountCoinbase spends every year on its workforce.And then Alameda lost about 80 percent of its assets’ value over the course of2022, due to a series of market crashes–as did Three Arrows Capital (3AC) andother crypto firms last year–and after that its assets fell even more from a targetedattack.  FTX was impacted by Alameda’s decline, as Voyager and others wereearlier by 3AC and others.Employees–both current and former–have been caught up in what happened, andthat’s not fair to them.  A huge number of them did nothing but what they thoughtwas right, and were–and still are–fighting for FTX’s customers every day.  Andeven many of those who are not–who are instead fighting against what I think theinterest of customers is–are caught up in a shitstorm they didn’t ask for or create,doing what they think is right; and I wish nothing but the best for them.There are a large number of regulators and administrators who have put in a hugeamount of work over the past few months trying to understand FTX and figure outwhat is in the best interest of customers/creditors.  My hat goes off to them.Someday, maybe someone will tell their story, even if they insist they don’t careabout public recognition of the amount of energy they’ve put into doing what’sright.Note that, in many places here, I’m still forced to make approximations.  Many ofmy personal passwords are still being held by the Chapter 11 team–to say nothingabout data.  If the Chapter 11 team wants to add their data to the conversation, Iwould welcome that.Also–I haven’t run Alameda for the past few years. So much of this is pieced together post-hoc, coming from models andapproximations, generally based on data that I had prior to resigning as CEO andmodeling and estimations based on that data.
Over the course of 2021, Alameda’s Net Asset Value skyrocketed, to roughly $100bmarked to market by the end of the year by my model.  Even if you ignore assets likeSRM that had much larger fully diluted than circulating supplies, I think it was stillroughly $50b.And over the course of 2021, Alameda’s positions grew, too.In particular, I think it had about $8b of net borrowing, which I believe was spent on:a) ~$1b interest payments to lendersb) ~$3b buying out Binance from FTX’s cap tablec) ~$4b venture investments(By ‘net borrowing’, I mean, basically, borrowing minus liquid assets on hand thatcould be used to return the loans. This net borrowing in 2021 came primarily fromthird party borrow-lending desks–Genesis, Celsius, Voyager, etc., rather than frommargin trading on FTX.)So by the start of 2022, I believe that Alameda’s balance sheet looked roughly like thefollowing:
a) ~$100b NAVb) ~$12b liquidity from 3rd party desks (Genesis, etc.)c) ~$10b more liquidity it likely could have gotten from themd) ~1.06x leverageIn that context, the ~$8b illiquid position (with tens of billions of dollars of availablecredit/margin from third party lenders) seemed reasonable and not very risky.  I thinkthat Alameda’s SOL alone was enough to cover the net borrowing.  And it was comingfrom third party borrow-lending desks, who were all–I was told–sent accurate balancesheets from Alameda.I think its position on FTX International was reasonable at the time–about $1.3b bymy model, collateralized with tens of billions of dollars of assets–and FTX successfullypassed a GAAP audit as of then.
As of the end of 2021, then, it would have taken a ~94% market crash to drag Alamedaunderwater!  And not just in SRM and assets like it–Alameda was still massively
Overview of what happened2021



--- PAGE 3 ---

overcollateralized if you ignore those. I think that its SOL position alone was largerthan its leverage.But Alameda failed to sufficiently hedge against the risk of an extreme market crash:the hundred billion of assets had only a few billion dollars of hedges.  It had a netleverage–[net position - hedges]/NAV–of roughly 1.06x; it was long the market.As a result, Alameda was in theory exposed to an extreme market crash–but it wouldtake something like a 94% crash to bankrupt it.
Alameda, then, entered 2022 with roughly:1. $100b NAV2. $8b net borrow3. 1.06x leverage4. Tens of billions of dollars of liquidityThen, over the course of the year, markets crash–again and again and again.  AndAlameda repeatedly fails to sufficiently hedge its position until mid summer.–BTC crashed 30%–BTC crashed another 30%–BTC crashed another 30%–rising interest rates curtailed global financial liquidity–Luna went to $0–3AC blew out–Alameda’s co-CEO quit–Voyager blew out–BlockFi almost blew out–Celsius blew out–Genesis started shutting down–Alameda’s borrow/lending liquidity went from ~$20b in late 2021 to ~$2b by late 2022And so Alameda’s assets get hit, again and again and again.  But this part isn’t specificto Alameda’s assets.  Bitcoin, Ethereum, Tesla, and Facebook are all down more than60% on the year; Coinbase and Robinhood are down about 85% from their peaks lastyear.
Remember that, at the end of 2021, Alameda had roughly $8b of net borrowing:a) ~$1b interest payments to lendersb) ~$3b buying out Binance from FTX’s cap tablec) ~$4b venture investmentsThat $8b of net borrowing, less the few billion of hedges it had on, resulted in around$6b of excess leverage/net position, backed by ~$100b of assets.And as markets crashed, so did those assets.  Alameda’s assets–a combination ofaltcoins, crypto companies, public equities, and venture investments–fell around 80%over the course of the year, raising its leverage bit by bit.
And over the same period, liquidity dried up–in borrow-lending markets, publicmarkets, credit, private equity, venture, and pretty much everything else.  Nearly everyliquidity source in crypto–including nearly all of the borrow-lending desks–blew outover the course of the year.Which means that Alameda’s liquidity–tens of billions of dollars at the end of 2021–dropped to single digit billions by fall 2022.  Most of the other platforms in the spacehad already gone under or were in the process of doing so, leaving FTX as the last manstanding.In the summer of 2022, Alameda finally put on substantial hedges, in somecombination of BTC, ETH, and QQQ (a NASDAQ ETF).But even after all the market crashes of 2022, shortly before November Alameda stillhad ~$10b of net asset value; it was positive even if you excluded SRM and tokens likeit, and it was finally hedged.
Over the course of 2022, a number of crypto platforms became insolvent due to marginpositions blowing out, likely including Voyager, Celsius, BlockFi, Genesis, Gemini,and ultimately FTX.This is a fairly common on margin platforms; among others, it’s happened on:Traditional Finance:LMEMF GlobalLTCMLehmanCrypto:OKExOKEx again, and basically every week for a yearCoinFlexEMXVoyager, Celsius, BlockFi, Genesis, Gemini, etc.
Then came CZ’s fateful tweet, following an extremely effective months-long PRcampaign against FTX–and the crash.Up until that final crash in November, QQQ had moved roughly half as much asAlameda’s portfolio, and BTC/ETH had moved roughly 80% as much–meaning thatAlameda’s hedges (QQQ/BTC/ETH), to the extent they existed, had worked. Unfortunately the hedges hadn’t been sufficiently large until after the 3AC crash–butas of October 2022, they finally were.
2022 Market Crashes
Margin Trading
The November Crash


--- PAGE 4 ---

But the November crash was a targeted attack on assets held by Alameda, not a broadmarket move.  Over the few days in November, Alameda’s assets fell roughly 50%; BTCfell about 15%--only 30% as much as Alameda’s assets–and QQQ didn’t move at all. Asa result, the larger hedge that Alameda had finally put on that summer didn’t end uphelping.  It would have for every previous crash that year–but not for this one.Over the course of November 7th and 8th, things went from stressful but mostly undercontrol to clearly insolvent.By November 10th, 2022, Alameda’s balance sheet had only ~$8b of (only semi-liquid)assets left, versus roughly the same ~$8b of liquid liabilities:
And a run on the bank required immediate liquidity—liquidity that Alameda no longerhad.Credit Suisse fell nearly 50% this autumn on the threat of a run on the bank.  At theend of the day, its run on the bank fell short.  FTX’s didn’t.And so, as Alameda became illiquid, FTX International did as well, because Alamedahad a margin position open on FTX; and the run on the bank turned that illiquidityinto insolvency.Meaning that FTX joined Voyager, Celsius, BlockFi, Genesis, Gemini, and others thatexperienced collateral damage from the liquidity crunch of their borrowers.All of which is to say: no funds were stolen.  Alameda lost money due to a market crashit was not adequately hedged for–as Three Arrows and others have this year.  And FTXwas impacted, as Voyager and others were earlier.
Even then, I think it’s likely that FTX could have made all customers whole if aconcerted effort had been made to raise liquidity.There were billions of dollars of funding offers when Mr. Ray took over, and more than$4b that came in after.If FTX had been given a few weeks to raise the necessary liquidity, I believe it wouldhave been able to make customers substantially whole.  I didn’t realize at the time thatSullivan & Cromwell—via pressure to instate Mr. Ray and file Chapter 11, includingfor solvent companies like FTX US–would potentially quash those efforts.  I still thinkthat, if FTX International were to reboot today, there would be a real possibility ofmaking customers substantially whole.  And even without that, there are significantassets available for customers.I’ve been, regrettably, slow to respond to public misperceptions and materialmisstatements.  It took me some time to piece together what I could–I don’t haveaccess to much of the relevant data, much of which is for a company (Alameda) Iwasn’t running at the time.I had been planning to give my first substantive account of what happened intestimony to the US House Financial Services Committee on December 13th. Unfortunately, the DOJ moved to arrest me the night before, preempting my testimonywith an entirely different news cycle.  For what it’s worth, a draft of the testimony Iplanned to give leaked out here.I have a lot more to say–about why Alameda failed to hedge, what happened with FTXUS, what led to the Chapter 11 process, S&C, and more.  But at least this is a start.
1In this post, “insolvent” refers to the inability to pay debts immediately as they come due. Itdoes not mean that an entity’s liabilities exceed its assets.
Recommend SBFʼs Substack to your readers
275 Likes∙3 Restacks
Coda
Recommend
© 2026SBF · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection noticeSubstackis the home for great culture