

--- PAGE 1 ---

ForumAdmin Aug 2024Here are three examples of key parts of the prevailing narrative, alongside alternative accounts that have been put forward by people withfirsthand knowledge.1. Was the $8 billion permanently lost?Media: “Definitely.”Further, the complaint asserts that defendants’ actions caused the loss of over $8 billion in FTX customer deposits…Bankman-Fried andother key personnel of FTX and Alameda acknowledged internally that this shortfall was not merely a matter of having sufficient liquidfunds on hand to cover customer withdrawals in the short term; rather, FTX customer funds were irrevocably lost because Alameda hadmisappropriated them. CFTC, December 2022[T]here is no serious dispute that around $10 billion went missing. Prosecutor, Sam’s trial, November 2023Insiders: “No. As everyone now knows, the money was always there. It was just temporarily tied up ininvestments.”By November 10th, 2022, Alameda’s balance sheet had only ~$8b of (only semi-liquid) assets left, versus roughly the same ~$8b ofliquid liabilities…There were billions of dollars of funding offers when Mr. Ray took over, and more than $4b that came in after. If FTX hadbeen given a few weeks to raise the necessary liquidity, I believe it would have been able to make customers substantially whole. Sam,January 2023Where did all that money go? The answer was: nowhere. It was still there. Michael Lewis, Going Infinite, October 2023FTX forecasts that the total value of property collected, converted to cash and available for distribution will be between $14.5 and $16.3billion. FTX bankruptcy lawyers, May 2024
2. Did Sam set up secret ways for Alameda to misappropriate other customers’ funds?Media: “Unmistakably, yes.”Civil charges, filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday, claimed that Bankman-Fried had been engaged in ascheme to deceive investors in FTX and his companies since at least May 2019…“Bankman-Fried diverted FTX customer funds toAlameda in essentially two ways: (1) by directing FTX customers to deposit fiat currency (e.g., U.S. Dollars) into bank accounts controlledby Alameda; and (2) by enabling Alameda to draw down from a virtually limitless ‘line of credit’ at FTX, which was funded by FTXcustomer assets.” Bloomberg, December 2022Now, the defendant set up two secret ways through which Alameda could take or borrow customer money…Each of these witnessestestified that they stole customer money at the defendant’s direction, and they described the ways he told them to do it…Now, there weretwo ways that they were able to take customer money, by withdrawing it from FTX from its cryptocurrency wallets in unlimited amounts,and by taking it out of the bank accounts that received those customer deposits. Prosecutor, Sam’s trial, October 2023Insiders: “In fact, Alameda only borrowed from and lent to other customers in legitimate ways.”And you recall we had testimony from Dr. Pimbley, who did an analysis of the data, and he concluded that 80 percent of the assets onFTX were margined assets used in futures trading. 80 percent are in this margin trading where customers are always borrowing othercustomers’ assets. Defense attorney, Sam’s trial, November 2023FTX didn’t have restrictions on what people could do with funds that they borrowed. So the answer like for other users was, anything—solong as we believed that the risk was being managed, which is to say, so long as we believe that its assets were greater than itsliabilities, we didn’t care if a user withdrew funds and used them to buy muffins, to pay business expenses, to invest, or anything else.Sam’s testimony, October 2023[At the first sign of the famous $8B “Hidden, poorly internally labled ‘fiat@’ account” in June 2022] I asked Caroline to confirm that thisdefinitely meant that Alameda’s NAV [assets minus liabilities] was positive 8 to 10 billion Sam’s testimony, October 2023Can you name any customers that were allowed to pledge outside investments as collateral for withdrawing money on FTX apart fromAlameda? …I believe that we did that with a firm called Crypto Lotus, and I believe that we considered that with Three Arrows. Sam’stestimony, October 2023And are you aware of any other customer on FTX who had the ability to spend FTX customer fiat deposits out of bank accounts? …Ithink multiple other payment processors for FTX had accounts on FTX as well. Sam’s testimony, October 2023But at least in early 2021 you were aware that Alameda was receiving FTX customer funds, fiat deposits? A. Yes. Q. And that fact alonedidn’t concern you, right? A. That’s correct. FTX employee testimony, October 2023Do you recall telling the prosecutors that to you, the idea of borrowing from anywhere, as long as you were good for it, didn’t feelwrong? [Exhibit shown to witness.] About borrowing in general? No. This refreshes me on something specific I thought about bankaccounts. Nishad’s testimony, October 2023The FTX.com exchange user agreement included conclusory language stating that customers “owned” “their” digital assets, yet it didnot include the other provisions necessary to create a conventional custody or trust relationship under applicable law. The useragreements also did not provide for the segregation of assets or the return of assets in specie to customers. Nor did such “ownership”language cover the billions in fiat currency owed to customers. FTX bankruptcy lawyers, June 2024[Gary] testified about several changes Bankman-Fried asked him to make to FTX’s software code to allow Alameda to withdraw unlimitedfunds from the exchange…Wang agreed that the changes were necessary for Alameda to provide liquidity on the exchange.Reuters, reporting on Gary’s testimony, October 2023Singh also acknowledged that he originally thought some of the special treatment Bankman-Fried’s trading firm Alameda Researchreceived on FTX was meant to protect customers by allowing it to more effectively “backstop” some trades. “My view at the time [wasthat] it would be helpful for customers,” Singh said. Financial Times, reporting on Nishad’s testimony, October 2023[B]y this time, September 2022…What was your reaction about hearing Alameda owed $13 billion? …I thought Alameda had positivebalances on FTX, that it was borrowing lots in some places but that overall they had more money than they didn’t. Nishad’stestimony, October 2023
3. Was Sam motivated to steal out of greed?Media: “Obviously. Just look at him.”Images of FTX founder and former CEO Sam Bankman-Fried’s $35 million penthouse in the Bahamas submitted as exhibits for hiscriminal fraud trial show a lavish lifestyle on the water with a private pool, bar and wide-open living room with a full-size grand piano.FOX News, October 2023Federal prosecutors have accused him of indulging in luxuries purchased with stolen money…Bloomberg obtained a cache of photosand video taken in the final year before Bankman-Fried’s companies, FTX and Alameda Research, went into bankruptcy. They offer anintimate look at the lives of Bankman-Fried, who declined to comment on them, and his inner circle at their peak—hosting parties andschmoozing with political figures and billionaires. Bloomberg, August 2023Insiders: “Well, look again. The Sam we know actually cares a lot about everyone else and little for himself.”The Bahamas real estate was corporate housing for FTX employees. It had to convince skilled professionals to uproot their livesand move their family and friends to the Bahamas to work for FTX. Defense attorney, Sam’s trial, November 2023A year into his new life in the Bahamas, Nishad Singh had stepped onto that beach just once, and then only because some relativeswere visiting. That was once more than Sam, and likely Gary too. Caroline appeared with a glass of wine, which here counted as an actof hedonism, and the meeting began. Michael Lewis, Going Infinite, October 2023He eschews materialistic trappings…As his calendar manager, I can confirm that he never takes a day off…It is crucial to recognize thatthe portrait of Sam portrayed in some media outlets is often misunderstood and misrepresented. The Sam I knew and worked with neveracted out of greed or self-interest. Instead, he consistently demonstrated a commitment to ethical business practices and a genuinedesire to make a positive impact on the world. Sam’s executive assistant, February 2024I watched the media coverage of his trial closely and it saddens me that so much of it was sensationalized and littered with claims Iknew were false…Our work focussed on building capacity in Africa for high quality clinical research that could detect pandemics earlyand respond rapidly. At his invitation, my team and I spent a week with him in the Bahamas discussing every detail of our proposal. Samhad thoughtful contributions to this discussion that were well-informed of Africa’s unique challenges and opportunities for future globalleadership on this topic. I believe that Sam was deeply motivated by a desire to make the world a better place. Rwandan charityadvisor, February 2024I’ve been harmed immensely by his actions, losing most of what I had…He is person non-grata in my community, and if I publicly sayanything positive about Sam, it could be really bad for me. I have every reason to stay quiet and not say anything to help this personwho’s harmed me. But it’s clear to me that Sam is not the villain portrayed in the media…He cared about chickens in university. Andpeople hate animal rights activists…To maintain his vegan diet he lived off of just bread for months. With just the occasional peanutbutter. Could you do that, to uphold your values, during the most stressful period of your life? FTX customer, February 2024This case must rank as the first time in the entire history of criminal justice where the defendant donated most of his earnings at hisprevious job to charity. Crypto critic and fellow effective altruist, February 2024I told him that he may not be noticing the consequences for his everyday health, but that his focus on work at the expense of personalhealth could well shorten his life. He sat for a few seconds and shocked me with his response. He asked me if it would impact the nextfive years of his life, and said he was not concerned about his health past that. He explained that due to circumstances, he was in aunique place to help others right now by earning to give [to charity], and that opportunity would probably not last more than five years orso. Thus, he didn’t care what happened to him after that. I knew what Sam meant. I knew it because, in the 3 years I had known him, hehad been steadfast and invariable in his goal of benefiting the world through earning to give, and almost completely unconcerned abouthis own happiness. That makes him, for better or for worse, an exceedingly unusual person, and anyone who tries to understand himthrough the lens of normal human desires will misunderstand him. Sam’s psychiatrist, February 2024[H]e has never felt happiness or pleasure in his life and does not think he is capable of feeling it. Sam’s mom, February 2024For more examples, check out…1. Going Infinite—Michael Lewis’s bestseller about the central characters of the FTX story, drawing on unparalleled access to Sam andhis colleagues both pre- and post-collapse2. FTX’d—forthcoming paper examining Sullivan & Cromwell’s undisclosed conflicts of interest in their work for FTX (and featuring FTXgeneral counsel Dan Friedberg’s objection to the retention of S&C)3. Ryan Salame’s feed on X—many recent tweets offer a fresh insider perspective on the FTX collapse4. A Second Glance—a website making the case for Sam’s innocence
The underreported story