

--- PAGE 1 ---

“You pled guilty to crimes that are not actuallycrimes?” “Correct.”Tucker Carlson interviews FTX executive Ryan SalameASTRIAOCT 10, 2024
ShareRyan Salame is due to self-surrender to prison on Friday for 7 ½ years. On Wednesday,Tucker Carlson released a two-hour tell-all conversation with Salame in which theyboth express bewilderment at the charges brought against him, and discuss how thegovernment induced Salame’s guilty plea by threatening the mother of his child. Theyalso talk about the government’s general warping of the narrative around FTX, andhow the fear of being indicted by the government or sued by the bankruptcy lawyershas silenced everyone who might speak up.Almost everyone.You have these perceptions because you don't really know anything beyond whatyou saw in a headline or in the first four paragraphs of the New York Times story.And then when you press a little bit into the details, it's something totally differentfrom what you thought it was or what you were told it was….And a tragedy like this—a tragedy for the investors—is hijacked by these institutions for political reasons.(Tucker Carlson)It’s an explosive interview. I share highlights below.Salame has filed a last-minute request for another continuance of his self-surrenderdate, which would see him beginning his sentence on December 7, 2024. I hope hisrequest is granted, if for no other reason than wanting to hear more of his story. Onegets the feeling that this interview only scratches the surface.
Salame originally planned to make political contributions by selling some of hiscrypto. But his lawyers said that for tax reasons, he should instead borrow the moneyfrom Alameda against his crypto. (Carlson agrees that this is how all wealthy people doit and that it’s legitimate.) And then the government accused Salame of being a “strawdonor” because they claimed the money was “really” SBF’s money since it had come“from” Alameda. Neither Salame nor Carlson can figure out what the motive wassupposed to have been here. Salame had made hundreds of millions of dollars prior tojoining Alameda/FTX and ultimately donated around $20-30 million.The other charge brought against Salame was failure to obtain a U.S. moneytransmitting licence. However, according to Salame, lawyers had told him that hedidn’t need one. The company he ran didn’t touch U.S. customers and others haveacknowledged that licences were their responsibility, not Salame’s.If you're getting indicted for not having a U.S. government licence to transfer thefunds of people who are not U.S. citizens outside of the United States, that'sinsane….Could the FBI arrest a driver in Abu Dhabi for not having a U.S. driver'slicence?(Tucker Carlson)So then, why plead guilty? For starters, the government threatened to bring even morecharges against Salame if he didn’t. It threatened a bank fraud charge, for instance,because he’d been cc’d on an email with a bank application that allegedly did notcompletely articulate what the account was for.But the government intimidated him in other ways also. Salame had immediatelycooperated with the government as best he could. And yet around four months afterFTX collapsed, thirty FBI agents turned up at his house with a battering ram andassault rifles to take his phone and the phone of his domestic partner, Michelle Bond.Later, the government threatened to indict Bond if Salame didn’t plead guilty. (“Sothey threatened your family?” “It's more common than you'd think.”) Knowing theenormous reputational and financial costs of indictments and how difficult it is to winat trial even when one is innocent, Salame pled guilty. The government indicted Bondanyway.Salame speculates that part of why the government got away with this is becausewealthy people don’t attract much sympathy. But he acknowledges that the system canbe much worse for people less fortunate than himself and also says that whathappened to customers haunts him every day. Ultimately, he doesn’t consider himself avictim. Carlson disagrees.
Salame had considered testifying in SBF’s defence. Not because he thought SBF wasinnocent of everything, but because much of the government’s narrative wasinaccurate. He ultimately decided not to because he knew that anyone who made asingle mistake on the stand in SBF’s defence would be charged with perjury.No one talks to the media more than the prosecutors and the government, eventhough they sort of lock people up on the other side if they talk to the media. Thegovernment sort of controls the narrative publicly, right? So they know how bad theFTX story is and how little the public wants to even think about any aspect of itanymore.(Ryan Salame)And if you talk to other defendants or potential witnesses, you should expect to getaccused of collusion and threatened with more charges.Salame describes how the government lets you know the story you need to tell to earnyourself some leniency, but it’s careful not to do so explicitly. Prosecutors might askyou to describe something in a different way or ask you how something reconcileswith something else. Salame decided not to lie to save himself but he feels others didand he’s confident Nishad Singh did not think of himself as committing campaignfinance fraud at the time.
Salame and Carlson propose that what drove a lot of the government’s actions in theFTX case was not the pursuit of justice, but a desire to destroy or control the cryptoindustry.For me, the big picture is clear. And it is that this technology is a threat toentrenched power. Therefore, they'll do whatever it takes to destroy it. (Tucker Carlson)They also theorise that Salame was targeted for a campaign finance charge because hegave to Republican candidates rather than Democrats. Salame recalls how JudgeKaplan spent the first half of his comments at Salame’s sentencing criticising CitizensUnited (who Salame never worked for).Kaplan went on to make various false accusations and twisted framings, such as thatSalame thought, “To hell with the customers—I'll save myself,” because he withdrew
“In uncovering [the fraud], [the government]manufactured a lot of other crimes.”
“The government hands get-out-of-jail-freecards if you parrot the narrative that they want.”
“You have to feign respect for people like JudgeKaplan, yeah. Well, I don't. I have no respect.”—Tucker Carlson


--- PAGE 2 ---

some money for legal fees while everyone else was withdrawing and before he knewthere’d be a bankruptcy, since he had no money in the bank. “What does that have todo with the crime?” Carlson responds. “That’s insane! And he said this in open court?”It is almost unheard of for a judge to hand down a sentence longer than whatprosecutors requested. But that is exactly what Kaplan did next.
No lawyers were charged with crimes in relation to the FTX collapse. And they werealmost literally the only adults in the room. This includes Dan Friedberg, who put outa statement saying that he—Friedberg—was in charge of all regulatory affairs atAlameda. Salame wonders what he is supposed to have done when lawyers assuredhim that what he was doing with respect to licences and campaign contributions waslegal.The bankruptcy lawyers will take $1 billion in fees from a company that has enoughmoney to pay back customers 120% (“and would have been even more had a number ofmore intelligent things been done”). These lawyers talk about a huge mess of anorganisation with no accountants, when in fact there was an entire accountingdepartment. Bankruptcy lawyers, Salame says, can do whatever they want, and manypeople aren’t speaking up because they’re still waiting to settle with the estate.It almost sounds like a system designed by and for the benefit of lawyers.(Tucker Carlson)According to Salame, the lawyers get a lot of scrutiny in the documentaries that are inproduction about the fall of FTX.
FTX moved to The Bahamas in 2021 because the country was making a serious effortto regulate digital assets. The move was challenging in many ways. Employees had toleave behind vibrant cities for a quiet island (“they call it island fever”). Almost all realestate had been built either for the impoverished or the ultra-wealthy and so FTXended up spending $500-750 million on housing for employees. In hindsight, Salamethinks the expenditure should have been more of a red flag, but at the time it didn’tseem crazy given Alameda’s $2-3 billion a year in profit.When Alameda’s balance sheet leaked in early November 2022, Salame thought it wasbad news for Alameda’s lenders, who had known all along that the loans were securedin large part by FTX’s native token. But a rumour started—largely driven by Binance,notes Salame—that the balance sheet somehow showed that FTX didn’t havecustomers’ funds. Salame was sure the funds were somewhere in the system, since SBFhad not been “out there blowing hundreds of millions of dollars on his own personallife”. Then Salame learnt that $6-8 billion of customer funds were not where hethought they should be. His reconstruction of events is that the money from Alameda’slenders was used to make various illiquid investments, and when those loans wererecalled, customer funds were used to repay them.Salame reports that these investments actually did really well. Carlson appearssurprised and impressed, and they both quickly emphasise that this is not a defence ofSBF’s crimes. But interestingly, neither can fathom why SBF committed them.SALAME: When he couldn't repay the lenders, he should have gotten on thephone and called them and said, “What do you want to do here? Like, I got thisventures book. It's not a bad book. I mean, I could file bankruptcy if you want. Ican give you guys the ventures. Like, how do you want to solve this?”CARLSON: Yeah. Because once you take that much from an institution, famously,you've got some power. SALAME: Yeah, correct. You're almost too—he became too big to fail and thendidn't use it.CARLSON: Interesting. Why? SALAME: I don't know. I think about that a lot. And that's if what I'm telling youturns out to be the correct story.Thanks for reading FTX: Act 3! Subscribe forfree to receive new posts and support my work.
Recommend FTX: Act 3 to your readersAnalysis and commentary on the latest developments in the FTX saga.
Discussion about this post
“You can't say, ‘The lawyer told me I could do this,so I did it.’ But I don't know what the point of thelawyer is then.”
“And it clicked…that's where the customers’money was.”
Recommend
Previous Next
Write a comment...
© 2026Astria · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection noticeSubstackis the home for great culture
CommentsRestacks