

--- PAGE 1 ---

[Repost] SBF philanthropyBy EdMills at whathappenedftx.comSEP 23, 2024
ShareI am a professor of health sciences at McMaster University and a Senior Scientist atStanford. I have spent my career working on infectious diseases in poor countries. It isin that capacity that I met Sam Bankman-Fried. I know nothing about crypto or thebusiness side of FTX, but I got to know Sam somewhat well through our collaborationon pandemic preparedness and the Sam I know bears no resemblance to the villainportrayed by the media. In fact, he is about as far from it as anyone I have ever known.I first met Sam when he asked me to help him organize a week-long planning meetingon pandemic preparedness in the Bahamas, where FTX was based, and Sam was at thetime living. The meeting, which was held in March 2022, drew together top academicresearchers from Stanford, Johns Hopkins, McMaster, Georgetown, and Harvard, aswell as representation from WHO. Subsequently, Sam would provide over $150 millionto fund an eco-system of researchers across the world working to speed thedevelopment of multiple vaccines, therapeutics, and monitoring strategies. The intentof the funding was that the groups work together, share knowledge, and (wherepossible) make all of data available on an open-source basis. At a meeting in May 2023in Bellagio, Italy, hosted by the White House and 10 Downing St., and focused onpandemic preparedness, about half of the scientists in attendance had received theirinitial research funding from Sam. Funding he provided for long COVID has now beenthe genesis of the largest long COVID trial in the world, still ongoing.His interest in medical solutions was extraordinary, but so was his vision and thedepth of his moral commitment to realizing it. Sam’s short-term focus was onpandemics, which pose the gravest immediate threat to the world’s population. But hislarger aspiration was to move towards “a world without disease.” He was not naïve. Heunderstood both the technological and regulatory challenges of developing medicalagents and distributing them to the world population at an affordable cost, but alsoknew there were promising paths forward that we hadn’t thought of or hadn’t tried yetbecause we lacked the funding.He encouraged all of us at the initial meeting to prioritize strategies for tacklinginfectious diseases that disproportionately kill the world’s poor. But that was the start,not the end, of his vision. He said to all of us, “our job is not over until we aresuccessfully conducting pediatric cancer trials in the poorest parts of Africa.” He wasaware that what the world saw as unachievable, was within grasp.Sam’s vision of an eco-system of similarly intentioned scientists working togethertowards a world without disease continues to be badly needed. In the absence of SamBankman Fried, it will be a very long time before we make important progress towardsthat goal. It boggles my mind as to why so few of the biggest philanthropists arefocusing on targeting the most impactful issues facing the world. I hope someone canfill this important void, but no one has stepped up yet since the collapse of FTX. It iseasy to cast judgement based on allegations, but actions speak louder than words. Iknow Sam feels that same way — it was never about his personal notoriety; it wassimply about doing good for the world.
This post first appeared at What Happened to FTX. It is reposted under a CC BY-SA 4.0licence.
Recommend FTX: Act 3 to your readersAnalysis and commentary on the latest developments in the FTX saga.
Recommend
Previous Next
© 2026Astria · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection noticeSubstackis the home for great culture