

--- PAGE 1 ---




--- PAGE 2 ---

MICHAEL
LEWIS
GOING
INFINITE
THE RISE AND FALL OF A
NEW TYCOON
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 3 ---

IN MEMORY OF DIXIE LEE LEWIS 
YOU REMAIN INSIDE OF ME
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 4 ---

The infinite is nowhere to be found in reality, no matter what experiences, observations, and
knowledge are appealed to. Can thought about things be so much different from things? Can
thinking processes be so unlike the actual processes of things? In short, can thought be so far
removed from reality?
— David Hilbert, German mathematician (1862– 1943)
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 5 ---

CONTENTS
Preface
ACT I
1 YUP
2 THE SANTA CLAUS PROBLEM
3 META GAMES
4 THE MARCH OF PROGRESS
ACT II
5 HOW TO THINK ABOUT BOB
6 ARTIFICIAL LOVE
7 THE ORG CHART
ACT III
8 THE DRAGON’S HOARD
9 THE VANISHING
10 MANFRED
11 TRUTH SERUM
CODA
Acknowledgments
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 6 ---

I
PREFACE
first heard about Sam Bankman- Fried at the end of 2021 from a friend
who, oddly enough, wanted me to help him figure out who he was. My
friend was about to close a deal with Sam that would bind their fates,
through an exchange of shares in each other’s companies worth hundreds of
millions of dollars. He remained uneasy. He thought he understood FTX,
the crypto exchange that Sam had built, but he didn’t have as good a feel for
Sam himself. He’d asked around about Sam and discovered that, as little as
he felt he really knew him, other people, even people who had invested
millions of dollars in Sam’s company, knew even less. My friend thought
that the general ignorance might be explained by Sam’s circumstances. FTX
had been around only two and a half years. Sam was only twenty- nine years
old, a bit odd, and had spent most of the previous three years outside the
United States. All that could explain why no one seemed to really know
him. My friend asked me if I could meet with Sam and report back
whatever I made of him.
A few weeks later, Sam was on my front porch in Berkeley, California.
He’d emerged from an Uber in cargo shorts, a T- shirt, limp white socks and
ratty New Balance sneakers— which I soon learned were basically the only
clothes he owned. We went for a walk— the only time in the next two years
I would ever see this person who was always dressed for a hike actually go
for one. During our walk I prodded him with questions, but after a while I


--- PAGE 7 ---

was mostly just listening. The stuff he was telling me— all of which, I
should say here, turned out to be true— was incredible. The sums of money
in his life, for a start. Not just the tens of billions of dollars he’d
accumulated in the previous two years but the hundreds of millions being
thrown at him by leading Silicon Valley venture capitalists who (as one
later told me) thought Sam had a real shot at being the world’s first
trillionaire. FTX’s revenues were growing at an astonishing rate: from $20
million in 2019, to $100 million in 2020, to $1 billion in 2021. On our walk
I asked him how much it would take for him to sell FTX and go do
something other than make money. He thought the question over. “One
hundred and fifty billion dollars,” he finally said— though he added that he
had use for “infinity dollars.”
Everything about him was peculiar, starting with motives— or at least
what he believed his motives to be. He didn’t come right out with all of it
on our walk, maybe because he realized how implausible it’d sound to a
total stranger. He needed infinity dollars because he planned to address the
biggest existential risks to life on earth: nuclear war, pandemics far more
deadly than Covid, artificial intelligence that turned on mankind and wiped
us out, and so on. To the list of problems Sam hoped to tackle he’d recently
added the assault on American democracy, which, if successful, would
make all of the other big problems far less likely to be solved. One hundred
fifty billion was about what was needed to make a dent in at least one of the
big problems.
There were also a bunch of smaller problems that money might solve that
had Sam thinking about whether to throw it at them, too. The Bahamas, for
instance. A few months before I met him, apparently in response to the
crackdown on cryptocurrencies by the Chinese government, Sam had
moved his entire company from Hong Kong to the Bahamas. The good
thing about the Bahamas, from Sam’s point of view, was that it had created


--- PAGE 8 ---

regulations, which the United States had not, to legitimize a crypto futures
exchange. The bad thing was that Covid had gutted its economy. The
country lacked the infrastructure to support the global financial empire Sam
hoped to build, and it was now too broke to create one. He was just then
trying to persuade forty or so employees, many of whom had grown up in
or around China, to move nine thousand miles to an island without a school
to which they’d be willing to send their kids. Sam explained that he was
trying to decide whether to simply pay off the $9 billion Bahamas national
debt himself, so the country could fix their roads and build schools and so
on. He’d recently met with the new prime minister to discuss this idea and
some others. I learned later from one of the prime minister’s aides that after
the Bahamian general election in September 2021, Sam was the first person
the prime minister had wanted to meet.
All of this would have sounded even more preposterous if Sam hadn’t
already done what he’d done— or if he hadn’t been so unusual. He hadn’t
been warped by money in the ways people often are. He wasn’t braggy. He
had opinions, but he didn’t seem to expect his listener to share them, and he
pretended to listen to mine even when what I was saying clearly didn’t
interest him. He didn’t even seem all that taken with his own fantastic story.
His mom and dad were law professors at Stanford who had basically zero
interest in money and were bewildered by what had become of their son— ‐
that’s pretty much all I got out of him that day, and the next few months. On
the other hand, on subjects other than himself he was refreshingly
unguarded: he seemed willing to answer any question I could think to ask
about the crypto industry or his business. His ambition was grandiose, but
he wasn’t.
By the end of this walk I was totally sold. I called my friend and said
something like: Go for it! Swap shares with Sam Bankman- Fried! Do
whatever he wants to do! What could possibly go wrong? It was only later


--- PAGE 9 ---

that I realized I hadn’t even begun to answer his original question: Who was
this guy?
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 10 ---

ACT I
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 11 ---

M
1
YUP
ost of the people who went to work for Sam Bankman- Fried ended
up in jobs for which they were not obviously qualified, and Natalie
Tien was no exception. She’d been raised in Taiwan by middle- class parents
whose only real hope for her was that she’d find a rich husband. She was
small and agreeable and ill- designed for rebellion. She still reflexively
covered her mouth with her hand when she laughed. And yet she’d been
determined to prove to her parents that they’d underestimated her. After
college she’d gone hunting not for a husband but for work. She’d been so
anxious about her own ambition that, before each interview, she’d write out
and memorize exactly what she wanted to say about herself. She’d landed
the first real job she’d applied for, at an English- language training company,
and it had bored her to tears. But then, in 2018, at the age of twenty- eight,
she’d discovered crypto.
The previous year, the price of bitcoin had risen almost twenty fold, from
$1,000 to $19,000, and the daily trading volumes had boomed by some
massive amount that was hard to precisely quantify. (The closest thing to an
accurate accounting of what occurred was from the Coinbase crypto


--- PAGE 12 ---

exchange, where trading volume in 2017 was thirty times greater than in
2016.) Across Asia, new crypto currency exchanges were popping up every
month to service the growing gambling public. They all had deep pockets
and an insatiable demand for young women. “Requirements are: pretty, big
boobs, have done live streaming before, born in 2000 or later, good at
chitchatting,” read the job ad for a salesperson at the fastest- growing new
exchange. By 2018 a lot of young Asian women were trying to meet those
requirements. Natalie took a different approach. She spent a month reading
everything she could find about cryptocurrencies and blockchains.
“Everyone called it a scam,” she said, and she worried about that. Once on
the inside, she was struck by how few of the people who worked in crypto
could explain what a bitcoin was. The businesses themselves didn’t always
know what they were doing, or why. They were hiring lots of people
because they could afford to, and big headcounts signaled their importance.
What kept Natalie going, and ignoring the feeling that whatever talent she
might possess was being wasted, was her feeling that crypto might be the
next big thing. “I thought of it as a gamble with nothing to lose,” she said.
By June of 2020 she was working for her second Asian crypto exchange
when she heard about the opening at FTX. Like the other exchanges, FTX
hired her quickly, after a single interview, and she became the company’s
forty- ninth employee. FTX was different from the other exchanges, mainly
because the guy who ran it, Sam Bankman- Fried, was different. Every man
Natalie Tien had ever met in crypto had been chiefly interested in money
and women, and Sam was chiefly interested in neither— though it took her a
while to figure out what it was he was chiefly interested in. Everything here
is five times, she thought. Five times more work, five times more growth,
five times more money, five times more responsibility. No one came out
and said that you had to work all the time, or that there was no room for a
life outside work, but anyone at FTX who tried to live a normal life simply


--- PAGE 13 ---

didn’t stick. Natalie stuck, and within months of moving to FTX’s Hong
Kong offices found herself named head of the company’s public relations.
What was peculiar about this— apart from the fact that she had no real
experience in public relations— was that FTX had no public relations.
“When I joined, Sam didn’t believe in PR,” said Natalie. “He thought it was
all bullshit.”
At the start, Natalie found herself trying to persuade Sam that he should
talk to journalists, while at the same time trying to persuade journalists that
they should talk to Sam. “In July 2020 no journalist was interested in Sam,”
she said. “Zip.” The mania for crypto recalled Rotterdam circa 1637, when
a single tulip bulb traded for roughly triple the price of a Rembrandt. And
every day more of it was being traded on FTX. And Natalie kept pushing on
journalists, and on Sam.
On the morning of May 11, 2021, Sam Bankman- Fried made his first
television appearance. He sat at his trading desk and talked into his
computer screen to two female reporters on Bloomberg TV. Thick black
curls exploded off his head in every direction. People who tried to describe
Sam’s hair would give up and call it an “afro,” but it wasn’t an Afro. It was
just a mess, and like everything about Sam’s appearance felt less like a
decision than a decision not to make a decision. He wore what he always
wore: a wrinkled T- shirt and cargo shorts. His bare knee jackhammered up
and down at roughly four beats per second, while his eyes darted left and
right and collided with his interviewers’ gaze only by chance. His general
demeanor was that of a kid pretending to be interested when his parents
hauled him into the living room to meet their friends. He’d done nothing to
prepare, but the questions were so easy that it didn’t matter. Crypto
Wunderkind, read the Bloomberg chyron, while the numbers on the left of
the screen showed that, in just the past year, bitcoin’s price had risen by
more than 500 percent.


--- PAGE 14 ---

That first TV show Natalie watched from her own desk, but later, during
future interviews, she’d walk around behind Sam to confirm that, yes, his
eyes moved around so much because he was playing a video game. On live
TV! Often, on live TV, Sam would not only play a video game but respond
to messages, edit documents, and tweet. The TV interviewer would ask him
a question and Sam would say, “Ahhhh, interesting question”— even though
he never found any of the questions interesting. And Natalie knew he was
just buying time to exit whatever game he was playing and reenter the
conversation. Natalie didn’t know how a person was supposed to behave on
live television, but she suspected it wasn’t like this. Yet even as she watched
Sam’s first television performance she sensed it might play well. Sam was
odd on TV, but he was also odd in real life. In real life people who
encountered him often thought he was the most interesting person they’d
ever met. She decided against media training— or anything that might make
Sam seem less like Sam.
Not long after that first Bloomberg interview, Forbes magazine showed
up. Back in 2017, when Forbes had begun to track crypto fortunes, Sam’s
name hadn’t even made the list of people whose fortunes they should track;
but back in 2017, Sam could not have told you what a bitcoin was, and in
any case he had been worth approximately zero dollars. “He kind of came
out of nowhere,” said Steve Ehrlich, the reporter Forbes assigned to figure
out the net worth of this twenty- nine- year- old nobody. “It shocked me. It
wasn’t that he had bought bitcoin and it had gone from zero to twenty
thousand.” Inside of three years, it appeared, Sam Bankman- Fried had
created a business so valuable that his share of it implied that he was now
the richest person in the world under the age of thirty. “When I first looked
at the numbers, I was like, Can this really be true— can this guy really be
worth twenty billion dollars?” said Chase Peterson- Withorn, who led the
Forbes team of investigators. “It was pretty much unprecedented. No one


--- PAGE 15 ---

else had gotten richer faster except for Mark Zuckerberg, and it was very
close.”
From that question they soon jumped to another: Exactly how much more
than twenty billion dollars might this guy be worth? In addition to the
crypto exchange, FTX, Sam also owned and controlled a crypto quant
trading firm called Alameda Research. The year before, 2020, with just a
handful of employees, Alameda had generated a billion dollars in trading
profits, and was accumulating stakes in other companies, and crypto tokens,
at a bewildering rate. The closer you got to Alameda Research, the less it
seemed like a hedge fund and the more it resembled a dragon’s lair, stuffed
with random treasures. The Forbes wealth analysts had always tried to keep
things simple: your assets were worth only what other people were willing
to pay for them. That approach had worked during the dot- com bubble,
when everyone could agree that even though Pets.com was ridiculous it was
still worth $400 million, because investors were willing to buy it at that
valuation. But with these new crypto fortunes, the Forbes approach to
wealth only got you so far. What to do, for instance, with the Solana tokens
Sam owned inside of Alameda Research? Hardly anyone knew what Solana
was— a new crypto currency minted to rival Bitcoin— much less how to
value it. On the one hand, the current market price implied that Sam’s
Solana stash was worth maybe $12 billion; on the other hand, Sam owned
roughly 10 percent of all the Solana in the world. It was hard to know what
anyone would pay for it if Sam tried to sell it all. Forbes pretty much just
ignored Sam’s Solana holdings, along with most of the rest of the contents
of his dragon’s lair.
As Sam went back and forth with the Forbes reporters, he— and Natalie
— worried mainly that they’d publish a number that would require him to
explain more than he wanted to explain. He’d walked the Forbes people
through what they knew, or thought they knew. “There were two reasons I


--- PAGE 16 ---

talked to them,” he said. “First, it was going to be in there anyway. And
second, it makes them trust us more.” Still, he was worried that if he told
Forbes everything, they might tell everyone that he was as rich as he
thought himself to be. “I didn’t just send them the number: here’s what I’m
worth,” he said. “It would set the wrong tone. The number was too big. If it
comes out in Forbes that I’m worth one hundred billion dollars, it’s going
to be weird and it’s going to fuck things up.” He hadn’t sent them the list of
the one hundred or so businesses he’d acquired over the previous two years,
for example. His story might be fantastic, but he needed it to be believable.
It turned out that Sam had nothing to worry about. In November 2021,
Forbes listed his net worth at $22.5 billion, a notch below Rupert Murdoch
and a notch above Laurene Powell Jobs. Twenty- two and a half billion
dollars was roughly what you got if you simply agreed with the world’s
leading venture capital firms that FTX’s crypto exchange business by itself
was worth $40 billion. Sam owned 60 percent of FTX: 60 percent of $40
billion was $24 billion. Still, in the forty years since Forbes began tracking
rich people’s money, he was an outlier. “He was the richest self- made
newcomer to the Forbes list, ever,” said Peterson- Withorn. “And we could
easily have justified a much bigger number. We tried to be conservative.”
Sam’s number was so believable that Forbes’s executives were soon asking
if he might like to buy their company, too.
When Sam saw the response to the Forbes billionaires list, and the
Forbes cover that followed, any doubts he had about the value of public
relations evaporated. Natalie’s job became both simpler and more
complicated. Simpler, because basically everyone now wanted to talk to
Sam, and Sam was game to talk to anyone— so long as he could play a
video game while doing it. Sam went from being totally private to being a
media whore. He was as happy to yak for an hour in a completely
unguarded way with the reporter from the Westwego Crypto Daily as he was


--- PAGE 17 ---

to speak with the New York Times. Natalie compiled lists for Sam, with
notes on the hundred or so journalists likely to walk into his field of vision,
and advice on how to handle them. For example: “This person is just, like,
an asshole so be very careful with him.” Or: “You can’t avoid the Financial
Times guy but be very cautious around anyone from the Financial Times
because the Financial Times is very anti- crypto.”
Being the head of public relations for a booming multinational
corporation wasn’t all that difficult. “You just do and learn at the same
time,” Natalie said brightly. The hard part of her job was Sam. The demand
for his time soon reached the point that Natalie took on a second role, as
Sam’s personal scheduler. It always had been Natalie the Financial Times
reporter was meant to call if he wanted to set a time with Sam; now it was
Natalie Sam’s father also needed to call if he hoped to get fifteen minutes
with his son. By the end of 2021 Natalie, and Natalie alone, knew where
Sam was at any given moment, and where he might next go, and how to get
him to do what he needed to do. She didn’t actually have all that much in
common with her boss, but to do her job she had to be inside his head. “You
need to learn how to get along with him,” she said. “And it’s kind of
mysterious how to get along with him.”
A year into her job, Natalie had become as good as anyone at predicting
what Sam might do, and why. And yet even to Natalie, Sam remained a
puzzle. She could never be sure where he was, for a start. “Don’t expect
that he’ll tell you where he’s going to be at when,” said Natalie. “He’ll
never tell you. You need to be smart and fast to find out by yourself.” And
Sam might be anywhere, at any hour. She’d book him a room for two nights
at the Four Seasons in Washington, DC, and Sam might even check in, but
never enter the room. He had more trouble with sleep than anyone she’d
ever known. At two in the morning, she might find him at his desk talking
to some journalist halfway around the world, or wandering around some


--- PAGE 18 ---

deserted street tweeting up a storm, or really anyplace but in his bed. But
then at two in the afternoon, when he was meant to be on live television, he
might be asleep on the beanbag chair beside his desk. “There is not such a
thing as on times and off times with him,” said Natalie. There had been
nights Natalie had gone to bed at 3:00 a.m., set an alarm for 7:00, woken up
to see what public relations shitstorm Sam might have caused in the interim,
set a second alarm for 8:00, checked again, then set another alarm and
fallen back to sleep until 9:30.
Sam’s approach to his commitments was an even bigger issue. Natalie
mapped out every minute of Sam’s days— not just the TV appearances but
the meetings with other CEOs, and curious celebrities, and rulers of small
countries. She put nothing on Sam’s schedule that he had not agreed to.
More often than not, it was Sam who had suggested some meeting or public
appearance. And yet Sam treated everything on his schedule as optional.
The schedule was less a plan than a theory. When people asked Sam for his
time, they assumed they’d posed a yes or no question, and the noises Sam
made always sounded more like “yes” than like “no.” They didn’t know
that inside Sam’s mind was a dial, with zero on one end and one hundred on
the other. All he had done, when he said yes, was to assign some non- zero
probability to the proposed use of his time. The dial would swing wildly as
he calculated and recalculated the expected value of each commitment,
right up until the moment he honored it or didn’t. “He’ll never tell you what
he’s going to do,” explained Natalie. “You have to always be prepared it’s
going to change every second.” Every decision Sam made involved an
expected value calculation. The numbers in Sam’s mind were always
shifting. One midnight, for instance, he had sent Natalie a message that
read: “There’s a 60 percent chance I’ll go to Texas tomorrow.” “What does
that mean, a sixty percent chance?” asked Natalie. “I can’t book sixty


--- PAGE 19 ---

percent of an airplane and sixty percent of a car, or sixty percent of a hotel
room in Texas.”
Of course, she didn’t say that to Sam directly. Instead, she tried to
anticipate the shifting odds before Sam made his calculations. She learned
to humor the professor at Harvard, for example, by saying, “Yes, Sam told
me he agreed to come and speak to a room full of impor tant Harvard people
at two next Friday. It’s on his schedule.” Yet even as she uttered those
words, she’d already invented the excuse she’d make to that same Harvard
person, likely next Thursday night, to explain why Sam would be nowhere
near Massachusetts. Sam has Covid. The prime minister needed to see Sam.
Sam is stuck in Kazakhstan.
The funny thing about these situations was that Sam never really meant
to cause them, which in a way made them feel even more insulting. He
didn’t mean to be rude. He didn’t mean to create chaos in other people’s
lives. He was just moving through the world in the only way he knew how.
The cost this implied for others simply never entered his calculations. With
him it was never personal. If he stood you up, it was never on a whim, or
the result of thoughtlessness. It was because he’d done some math in his
head that proved that you weren’t worth the time. “You’re always going to
be apologizing to different people, and you’ll do that every day,” said
Natalie.
Natalie loved her job. Sam had never once been cruel or abusive or even
flirty. Just the opposite: she felt protected by him from the abuse of others.
He’d occasionally surprise her with some kindness— for example, after he’d
met privately with President Clinton, and asked him what the United States
might do if China invaded Taiwan. Whatever Clinton had told Sam had
prompted him to seek her out afterward and suggest that she move her
parents out of Taiwan. Sam seldom even disagreed with her. He’d
invariably seem open to her ideas— and sometimes, as with Bloomberg TV,


--- PAGE 20 ---

he’d actually do what she suggested. “Yup,” he’d always say. “Yup” was
Sam’s go- to word, and the less he’d actually listened to whatever you’d just
said, the longer he drew it out. Yuuuuuuuuup. “He’s not direct, most of the
time,” said Natalie. “He’ll say ‘yup’ or ‘that’s interesting’ and he doesn’t
really mean that. So you need to figure out when he is just avoiding
conflict, and when he means it.”
By early 2022 Sam’s situation was totally out of hand. Every impor tant
person on the planet seemed to want to get to know him. He had said yes to
them all. Anyone else in Sam’s situation would have built out a huge
network of schedulers and advisors and gatekeepers. Sam had only Natalie,
who was no longer just Sam’s public relations head and Sam’s private
scheduler but, on occasion, Sam’s bodyguard. She was a circus juggler with
a thousand balls in the air. No one ball was all that impor tant, but Natalie
sensed that any given ball, if dropped, might trigger a cascading crisis. And
on the morning of February 14, one of those balls had her especially
worried.
Three days earlier, Sam had boarded a private plane in the Bahamas
bound for Los Angeles, with nothing but his laptop and a change of
underwear. Since then, he’d had brunch with Shaquille O’Neal and dinner
with the Kardashians, and had watched the Super Bowl with the owner of
the Los Angeles Rams. He’d chatted with Hillary Clinton and Orlando
Bloom. He’d attended four parties and had met with entrepreneurs who
wanted him to buy their businesses, and also with the CEO of Goldman
Sachs, who was eager to get to know Sam better. For the previous three
nights Natalie hadn’t been entirely sure where, or if, Sam had slept, but she
knew he’d checked into the room she’d booked for him at the Beverly
Hilton, because she’d watched him do it.


--- PAGE 21 ---

Now, on the fourteenth, the hotel room looked as if he’d never arrived.
The sheets were still crisp, the pillows undented, the trash cans empty, the
bathroom sparkling. The only sign of a human presence in the room was
Sam himself. He sat at the desk in the same wrinkled T- shirt and baggy
cargo shorts he’d worn on the plane ride in. As always, he was doing
several things at once: checking his phone, applying ChapStick to his
perpetually parched lips, opening and closing windows on his laptop— all
while his knee jackhammered at four beats a second. His assigned task— the
one Natalie had reminded him about the night before, and again this
morning— was being on time for his Zoom meeting. He was already late.
Yet another very impor tant person who really wanted to meet him was
waiting for him inside his laptop.
“Hey, this is Sam!” said Sam, to his laptop, as his Zoom box opened.
Onto his screen popped Anna Wintour, editor in chief of Vogue
magazine. She wore a tight yellow dress and careful makeup and a bob cut
so sharply that its fringes plunged and curved down around her face like the
blades of two scythes. “I’m so happy to finally meet you!” she said.
“Hey, it’s great to meet you too!” Sam replied.
Sam didn’t really know who Anna Wintour was. Natalie and others had
briefed him, but he hadn’t paid attention. He knew Anna Wintour edited a
magazine. He might or might not have been dimly aware that Meryl Streep
had played her in The Devil Wears Prada, and that she’d ruled the
treacherous world of women’s fashion since— well, since before Sam was
born. She looked like a million bucks, but her art, like all art, was wasted on
Sam. When you asked Sam to describe a person’s appearance— even a
person he’d slept with— he’d say, “I don’t really know how to answer that.
I’m not good at judging how people look.”
As Anna Wintour began to speak, he clicked a button and she vanished
from his screen. In her place popped his favorite video game, Storybook


--- PAGE 22 ---

Brawl. He had only a few seconds to choose his character. He picked the
Hoard Dragon. The Hoard Dragon was maybe Sam’s favorite hero to play.
“Yup,” said Sam, to whatever Anna Wintour was saying. He could still
hear her through headphones. Unless she watched his eyes, she had no
reason to think that he wasn’t paying attention. Sam didn’t want to seem
rude. It was just that he needed to be playing this other game at the same
time as whatever game he had going in real life. His new social role as the
world’s most interesting new child billionaire required him to do all kinds
of dumb stuff. He needed something, other than what he was expected to be
thinking about, to occupy his mind. And so, oddly, the more impor tant he
became in the eyes of the world, the more impor tant these games became to
him.
Storybook Brawl had everything Sam loved in a game. It pitted him
against live opponents. It required him to make lots of decisions quickly.
Games without clocks bored Sam. It energized him to have seconds ticking
away as he assembled his platoon of fantasy characters— dwarves, witches,
monsters, princesses, and so on. Each character came with two numbers
attached to it: how much damage it could inflict on other characters and
how much damage it could itself survive. Each also had more complex
traits— for example, the ability to cast random spells, or to interact in
peculiar ways with specific treasures it collected along the way, or to
strengthen comrades in some quantifiable way. The game was too
complicated to know with certainty its optimal moves. It required skill, but
also luck. It required him to estimate probabilities, but also to guess. This
was impor tant; Sam didn’t care for games, like chess, where the players
controlled everything and the best move was in theory perfectly calculable.
Chess he’d have liked better if robot voices wired into the board hollered
rule changes at random intervals. Knights are now rooks! All bishops must
leave the board! Pawns can now fly! Or almost anything— so long as the


--- PAGE 23 ---

new rule forced all players to scrap whatever strategy they’d been pursuing
and improvise another, better one. The games Sam loved allowed for only
partial knowledge of any situation. Trading crypto was like that.
“Yuuuuuup,” said Sam, to whatever Anna Wintour had just said. His
dwarf platoon, to which he’d added a princess or two, was defending the
Hoard Dragon. At the same time, it was attacking its new foe, his
opponent’s hero, a fat white penguin named Wonder Waddle. A dwarf
named Crafty assaulted a sad- looking wimp called the Lonely Prince.
Sleeping Princess wiped out the Labyrinth Minotaur. A sleeping maiden
awakened to cast a spell that caused a dying character to turn into three
arbitrarily generated living ones. So much was happening all at once! It
would have been impossible for him to follow the action, even if that were
all he was following.
“Yuuuuuuuuup,” said Sam. The noises the woman was making were still
entirely ceremonial. No real content here. But each of Sam’s yups was
warmer, more animated, than the last. And she was clearly warming to him.
Everyone did these days. When you had $22.5 billion, people really, really
wanted to be your friend. They’d forgive you anything. Their desire freed
you up from having to pay attention to them, which was good, because Sam
had only so much attention to give. Another battle was about to begin. As
the seconds ticked down, he hastily selected a new army of killer trees and
dwarves. At the same time, he pulled up a document: the notes Natalie had
created for this very meeting. Sam now looked them over for the first time.
Anna Wintour was definitely the editor of Vogue magazine.
“That’s interesting,” he said, as the battle commenced. Again, it was over
in seconds. Already the Hoard Dragon was in trouble. Its health number
was declining faster than the competition’s. A lot of the heroes were front- ‐
loaded; the Hoard Dragon was one of the rare ones that acquired its special
powers only later in its life. The way to play the Hoard Dragon was to buy


--- PAGE 24 ---

treasures that paid off more for it than for any other hero— but the payoff
came way down the road, like eight battles later. In the meantime, you were
diverting resources from the battle at hand. Sam didn’t need to win these
early battles. He just needed to keep the Hoard Dragon alive long enough to
enjoy the future gargantuan payoffs from the treasures he was
accumulating. Anna Wintour was making that difficult. She wanted so
much attention! And she was arriving at the reason for the call: the Met
Gala. Organized by Vogue magazine. But rather than simply explain it to
him and leave him in peace, she asked Sam what he knew about it.
Sam shifted in his chair. From his wrinkled cargo shorts he pulled his
ChapStick. He twiddled it. Valuable seconds ticked away. Finally, he hit a
button. The Hoard Dragon vanished, and Anna Wintour reappeared.
Curiously, only when he was talking did he want to see her.
“I don’t know as much about your industry as obviously you do,” he said,
cautiously. “I know some of the public information, but I don’t know much
of the behind- the- scenes information.” Some information. Strictly speaking,
that was true: Sam knew some information. He knew that the Met Gala was
a party. Attended by celebrities. Beyond that, he didn’t know much. For
example, he could not have told you if the “Met” was the Metropolitan
Opera or the Metropolitan Museum or, for that matter, the Metropolitan
Police.
Anna Wintour was clearly used to this situation. To Sam’s great relief,
she now began to explain the thing. The moment she opened her mouth,
Sam switched out her face for a page from Wikipedia:
The Met Gala, formally called the Costume Institute Gala or the Costume Institute
Benefit and also known as the Met Ball, is an annual fundraising gala for the benefit
of the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute in New York City. It marks the
opening of the Costume Institute’s annual fashion exhibit.[4] Each year’s event
celebrates the theme of that year’s Costume Institute exhibition, and the exhibition


--- PAGE 25 ---

sets the tone for the formal dress of the night, since guests are expected to choose
their fashion to match the theme of the exhibit.
“Interesting!” said Sam. “That’s super interesting.” But even as he
expressed this interest, he pressed a button that caused the Wikipedia page
to vanish. In its place appeared an enormous golden tomahawk. The Hoard
Dragon was hanging by a thread. Another battle was about to begin, against
a character named Peter Pants. Peter Pants was the opposite of the Hoard
Dragon. Peter Pants was a make- or- break character whose powers dwindled
over time. Peter Pants was all about killing you quickly. Peter Pants might
finish off the Hoard Dragon in a single battle. Sam had only a few seconds
to organize his fighting force. He needed to focus. Anna Wintour was
making that impossible.
“Yuuuup,” said Sam.
Anna Wintour now said she wanted to hear more about what FTX had 
done, giving- money- away- wise. Compelled to speak, Sam allowed her face 
to return to his computer screen. “We’ve done sponsorship deals with some 
places,” he said. “But it’s somewhat of an accident what we jumped into 
first. We really try to look hard at what partnerships would be most 
impactful. That’s why we’ve partnered with Tom and Gisele.” Partnered. 
Again, strictly true. It didn’t capture the spirit of the relationship. Sam had 
agreed to pay Tom Brady $55 million, and his then- wife, Gisele Bündchen, 
another $19.8 million, for twenty hours of their time each, over the next 
three years. Sam was paying people more money per minute than anyone 
had ever paid them to do anything in their entire lives. He’d paid Larry 
David $10 million to create a sixty- second ad—over and above the $25 
million the ad cost to produce and air during the Super Bowl—which Sam 
had watched just the day before. It was a great ad.
The Hoard Dragon was dying.


--- PAGE 26 ---

Sam might not have been entirely sure what the Met Gala was, or exactly
what role he might play in it, but he could sense what Anna Wintour was
after. She didn’t want only his money; she wanted him. Present, on her Met
Gala red carpet, beside her, creating buzz. Sam also understood what he
might get in return for his sacrifice: women. Or, rather, access to the female
crypto speculator. FTX had spent vast sums to capture the minds of men.
Fashion, to Sam’s way of thinking, occupied roughly the same place in the
female imagination that sports did in the male imagination. He’d asked
some marketing people for a list of things he might do in fashion to appeal
to women. The Met Gala was on the list. And so here he was, on a Zoom
call with Anna Wintour herself, who now seemed to be hinting that Sam
might pay for the entire shindig.
“Yeah, absolutely,” said Sam, but his mind was elsewhere. The Hoard
Dragon was dead. Anna Wintour had killed it. What to do? He made a
half- hearted bid to begin another game and pick another hero but then
changed his mind and shut the game down. He could often occupy two
worlds at once and win in both. In this case he clearly stood no chance of
winning in one world unless he paid less attention in the other. And this
woman somehow had acquired a spell that interfered with his abilities to
multitask. For now she was asking him not only for his money and his time.
She wanted to know all about his political activities.
“My mom is working full- time on the effectiveness of political campaign
donations, and my brother is in DC with policymakers,” Sam said, returning
Anna Wintour’s face to his laptop. “We’re doing a decent amount to see just
how hard we can make it to steal an election. It’s sad that’s the forum we
have to fight in, but it is.”
For a surprisingly long time, Sam’s spending on American elections had
flown under the radar. Back in 2020, he’d sent $5.2 million to Joe Biden’s
presidential campaign without anyone asking or even thanking him for it.


--- PAGE 27 ---

He was Biden’s second-  or third- biggest donor, and yet the campaign had
never even bothered to call him. Since then, Sam had tossed tens of millions
more dollars at one hundred different candidates and political action
committees (PACs), in ways that made his identity difficult to detect. It was
yet another game— How to Influence American Politics— that he was
learning by doing, and it was pretty fun, especially when you had the
special power of invisibility. But then he “fucked up,” as he put it. He let it
slip in some interview that he was thinking of hurling a billion dollars into
the next presidential election. That remark had awakened the beast. And
now Anna Wintour was professing her love for Pete Buttigieg. She was
asking where, exactly, Sam planned to be in the next few weeks. To talk
more about Pete Buttigieg.
“I certainly would love an introduction,” said Sam. “He’s someone who
I’d love to see as president.” If he thought that would satisfy Anna Wintour,
he was wrong. She wanted to nail down a place in the real world where
Sam might be, and a time he might be there.
“I’m in the Bahamas sixty percent of the time,” said Sam, neatly evading
the question. “I’m in DC some. For better or worse, my job is now thirty
percent telling the regulators about what regulation should look like for
crypto in the United States.” His bare left leg now curled under his bottom
on the hotel desk chair; his right heel, encased in a white athletic sock,
bounced up and down off the hotel carpet. He looked less like a crypto
tycoon than a first grader who needed to pee. But now Anna Wintour was
talking again, thank God. Liberated, he scrolled through his Twitter feed.
Two nights earlier, Sam had been introduced to Katy Perry. Katy Perry had
wanted to know all about crypto. Now she was posting on Instagram: “im
quitting music and becoming an intern for @ftx_official ok 
.”
Anna Wintour’s tone was changing. She had gotten what she came for
and was now warmly ending the conversation. To be free of her, all Sam


--- PAGE 28 ---

needed to do was make his usual sounds of total agreement with whatever
she said.
Yup.
Awesome!
That makes a ton of sense.
Yeah, I would love to!
See ya!
With that, Sam hit a button and Anna Wintour was gone for good. With
the understandable impression that Sam Bankman- Fried, the most
openhanded billionaire ever to have walked the earth, had agreed to be her
special guest at the Met Gala. That Sam might even pay for the entire thing.
Sam, for his part, hadn’t really thought about it. He’d not even begun to do
his Met Gala math. “I would have to think hard if this is a thing I want to go
to,” he said, as he stowed his laptop in his backpack with his spare
underwear and headed for the door of his Los Angeles hotel room, on his
way back to the Bahamas. “I would certainly be out of place there. It’s
going to be a difficult needle to thread.”
In the ensuing weeks, Sam gave Anna Wintour’s people no reason to
think he was doing anything but threading needles. FTX’s marketing people
sounded out Louis Vuitton about creating a red- carpet- worthy version of
Sam’s T- shirt and cargo shorts look. Other FTX employees, perhaps
hedging the company’s bets, paid Tom Ford to design a more conventional
outfit, complete with sixty- five- thousand- dollar cuff links. Behind the
scenes, wheels spun and gears ground but Sam himself never really
engaged with the process, or even said what was on his mind. He viewed
the entire list of fashion plays dreamed up by the FTX marketing people
with suspicion. “I have no idea which of these things matters and which
doesn’t,” he said. “It’s not clear that there is any way to know.”


--- PAGE 29 ---

His whole life, as far back as he could remember, he’d been perplexed by
the way people allowed physical appearance to shape their lives. “You start
by making decisions on who you are going to be with based on how they
look,” he said. “Then, because of that, you make bad choices about religion
and food and everything else. Then you are just rolling the dice on who you
are going to be.” Anna Wintour, now that he thought of it, represented much
of what he disliked about human beings. “There are very few businesses
that I have strong moral objections to, and hers is one of them,” he said. “I
actually have disdain for fashion. I have general disdain for the importance
that physical attractiveness has, and this is one thing emanating out of that.”
Very briefly, Sam set aside his disdain for the fashion industry and tried
to do some math. Four billion women on the planet. Let’s say one in a
thousand of them pays attention to the Met Gala. Let’s say one in a hundred
of those gets interested in FTX . . . But it felt like trying to comb his hair
when he had chewing gum stuck in it. His mind couldn’t even really get
past the need for him to change out of his cargo shorts. And yet he allowed
the decision to just sit there, festering, for months. The Met Gala would not
occur until May 2. In Sam’s mind he had until roughly the night of May 1
before he had to tell Natalie what he planned to do.
Natalie Tien was prepared for Anna Wintour’s people to be disappointed
when she told them that Sam wouldn’t be there. It was their outrage that
surprised her. “They called and shouted and said Sam will never set foot in
fashion again!” said Natalie. So much for pulling more women into crypto.
Natalie didn’t understand why the Met Gala was such a big deal. Sam’s
last- minute decision not to go would not create anything like the havoc
caused by some of his other internal calculations. CEOs had flown to the
Bahamas under the mistaken impression that Sam had agreed to buy their
companies. The World Economic Forum had to scramble to fill a stage and


--- PAGE 30 ---

cancel media interviews after Sam decided, the night before he was meant
to deliver a big speech in Davos, not to. Sam had failed to fly to Dubai to
give the keynote at Time magazine’s party for the world’s 100 Most
Influential People, even after Time had named him to their list and flattered
him in print. “In a crypto landscape ridden with scams, hedonism, and
greed, Bankman- Fried offers a kinder and more impactful vision brought
forth by the nascent technology,” Time had written, the week before Sam
stiffed them. Tyra Banks and will.i.am and all the rest of the world’s other
most influential people were treated to hastily prepared remarks delivered
by a not entirely sober FTX employee named Adam Jacobs, who was
bewildered to be standing in for Sam. “I’m like, What is the head of
payments doing giving this speech?” said Jacobs. “Why am I drinking with
will.i.am?”
But the people at Time magazine hadn’t made a stink. No one except
Anna Wintour’s people did: the general rule of life as late as May 2, 2022,
was that Sam got to be Sam. It didn’t cross Natalie’s mind to feel even a
tiny bit irritated with Sam. She could never be upset with him for the mess
he left for her to clean up, because she knew that he never intended to make
a mess. She could even forgive people who called to scream at her about
Sam. If she herself didn’t fully understand Sam, how could anyone?
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 31 ---

W
2
THE SANTA CLAUS PROBLEM
hen I’d asked Sam for a list of people who could describe what he
was like before the age of eighteen, he’d taken a deep breath and
said, “That’s slim pickings.” He suggested his parents, Joe Bankman and
Barbara Fried. He mentioned that he had a younger brother, Gabe. Apart
from that, he said, he had no early relationships that would cast any light on
him, and there were no experiences in his childhood that mattered much.
“I’m a little confused about my childhood,” he said. “I just can’t figure out
what I did with it. I look at the things I did, and I cannot successfully add up
to twenty- four hours a day. I daydreamed some. I read some books. I played
some video games, but that wasn’t until high school. I had one or two
friends I’d hang out with now and again.” The names of those friends, with
one exception, would not ever spring to mind. He was happy to supply me
with his date of birth: March 5, 1992. Beyond that, he didn’t have much to
say, and didn’t think his childhood had anything to say about him— which
struck me as odd, as he had spent roughly two- thirds of his life in it.
He’d gone to school for thirteen years with other children. He’d been
admitted to colleges, which would have required teachers to write him


--- PAGE 32 ---

recommendations. His parents were well- known professors. Most Sundays,
I’d learn, Joe and Barbara hosted a dinner that guests remember fondly to
this day. “The conversation was intoxicating,” recalls Tino Cuéllar, a
Stanford law professor who would go on to become a judge on California’s
supreme court and then head of the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace. “Fifteen percent of it was what was going on in your life, fifteen
percent was politics, and the rest was ideas. How we thought about what we
thought about— aesthetics, music, whatever.” Sam had been at those dinners
but could not think of any one of their guests who’d be worth my talking to.
Pressed, he suggested I call his brother, who was now employed by Sam to
distribute Sam’s money to political candidates. Gabe, three years younger,
told me that I was wasting my time. “We weren’t close growing up,” he
said, when I reached him. “I don’t think Sam liked school that much, but I
don’t really know. He kept to himself. I would interact with him as another
tenant in my house.”
Sam’s parents were only a bit more helpful. Sam had been their first
child, and so it had taken them longer than it might have to figure out that
there was no point in parenting him by any book. “Childhood was a funny
thing for Sam,” said Joe. “He was never comfortable with kids, or with
being a kid.” They’d briefly attempted to inflict upon him a normal
childhood before realizing that there was no point. The trip to the
amusement park was a good example. When Sam was a small child, his
mother had located a Six Flags or Great America park. She’d hauled him
dutifully from amusement to amusement until she realized Sam wasn’t
amused. Instead of throwing himself into the rides, he was watching her.
“Are you having fun, Mom?” he asked finally, by which he meant, Is this
really your or anyone else’s idea of fun? “I realized I had been busted,” said
Barbara.


--- PAGE 33 ---

By the time Sam was eight she had given up on the idea that his wants
and needs would be anything like other children’s. She remembered the
instant that happened. She had been at Stanford for over a decade, a
frequent contributor of difficult papers to academic journals. “I was walking
him to school, and he asked me what I was doing,” recalled Barbara. “I told
him I was giving some paper, and he asked, ‘What’s it on?’ ” I gave him a
bullshit answer, and he pressed me on it, and by the end of the walk we
were in the middle of a deep conversation about the argument. The points
he was making were better than any of the reviewers’. At that moment my
parenting style changed.”
To their friends who came to dinner on Sunday nights, Joe was always
light, Barbara more serious. Joe was funny, Barbara trenchant. Gabe was a
bright and cheery little kid whom everyone loved. Sam was always a
presence, but he was quieter and more watchful and less accessible than his
little brother. To their dinner guests it seemed that Joe and especially
Barbara were both a little afraid for, and of, their elder son. And that they
were concerned about how he would ever fit into the world. “We worried
that Gabe’s light was going to shine, and Sam would hide his under a
bushel,” said Barbara.
Sam himself took a bit longer to recognize the gulf between himself and
other children. He didn’t really know why he didn’t have friends the way
other kids did. Between the ages of eight and ten, he was sideswiped by a
pair of realizations that, taken together, amounted to an epiphany. The first
came one December day during the third grade. Christmas was
approaching, and a few of his classmates brought up the critical subject of
Santa Claus.
The Bankman- Frieds weren’t big on the usual holidays. They celebrated
Hanukkah but with so little enthusiasm that one year they simply forgot it,
and, realizing that none of them cared, stopped celebrating anything. “It


--- PAGE 34 ---

was like, ‘Alright, who was bothered by this fact? The fact that we forgot
Hanukkah.’ No one raised their hand,” Sam said. They didn’t do birthdays,
either. Sam didn’t feel the slightest bit deprived. “My parents were like, I
dunno, ‘Is there something you want? Alright, bring it up. And you can
have it. Even in February. Doesn’t have to be in December. If you want it,
let’s have an open and honest conversation about it instead of us trying to
guess.’ ” Sam, like his parents, didn’t see the point in anyone trying to
imagine what someone else might want. The family’s indifference to
convention came naturally and unselfconsciously. It was never, Look how
interesting we are, we don’t observe any of the rituals that define so many
American lives. “It’s not like they said, ‘Gifts are dumb,’ ” recalled Sam.
“They never tried to convince us about gifts. It didn’t happen like that.”
None of what the Bankman- Frieds did was for show; they weren’t that
kind of people. They just really thought about what they did before they did
it. In his twenties Sam would learn that his parents had never married. In
silent protest of the fact that their gay friends could not legally marry,
they’d joined in a civil union. And they never said a word about it to their
children, or to anyone else, as far as Sam could tell. Later, Sam understood
that “they were clearly being driven by a different underlying belief
system.” As a small child he knew only that there were things other
children took for granted that he did not. One was Santa Claus.
Of course Sam was aware of Santa. “I’d like heard of it,” he said. “I
hadn’t thought that deeply about it.” He thought of Santa roughly the same
way he thought of cartoon characters. Bugs Bunny existed too, in some
sense, but Bugs Bunny wasn’t real. Now, at the age of eight, he realized
that other children believed that Santa was real, in a way that Bugs Bunny
was not. It blew his mind. He went home that afternoon, shut himself in his
room, and thought it over. “Imagine you had never been introduced to the
idea of Santa as a real thing,” said Sam. “And then one day someone tells


--- PAGE 35 ---

you that ninety- five percent of the people your age in the world believe in
him. That this guy lives in the North Pole and has these elves. That he takes
off with these flying reindeer. He flies into your chimney and brings you
presents. Unless you’ve been naughty, in which case he brings coal. Though
for some reason no one actually knows anyone who has gotten coal. And he
does this just once a year. You’re like, ‘What the fuck? Where did that come
from?’ ”
He found his way to a solution that offered temporary relief: only
children suffered from this madness. Yes, kids believed in Santa. But
grown- ups did not. There was a limit to the insanity. But then, a year or so
later, a boy in his class said he believed in God.
Sam had heard of God too. “God was like a thing on TV,” he said. “God
came up. But I didn’t think anyone actually believed in God.” It told you
something not just about Sam but about his upbringing that he could live for
almost ten years inside the United States of America without realizing that
other people believed in God. “I never asked myself, ‘Why does God come
up if no one believes in it?’ ” he said. “I had never gone through that
process before. I hadn’t drilled down into ‘Do people believe in it?’ ” Now
Henry was telling him not only that he believed in God but that his parents
did too. So did lots of other grown- ups. “And I freaked out,” recalled Sam.
“Then he freaked out. We both freaked out. I remember thinking, Wait a
minute, do you think I’m going to hell? Because that seems like a big deal.
If hell exists, why do you, like, care about McDonald’s? Why are we
talking about any of this shit, if there is a hell. If it really exists. It’s fucking
terrifying, hell.”
This was Santa all over again, only worse. God— or rather the fact that
anyone believed in him— rocked Sam’s world. Just sideswiped his view of
other people and what was going on inside their minds. He tried to confront
adults— mainly friends of his parents’ who came to dinner— about God. He


--- PAGE 36 ---

always found it easier to talk to grown- ups than to children and had always
been better at it than other children— a fact he attributed to the idiotic
childishness of other children. His parents’ friends were at their dinner table
every Sunday, and available for inspection. “I’d ask them, ‘Do you believe
in God?’ They’d equivocate— like, say something about a Being that started
the Clock of the Universe. And I’d think, Quit fucking around: it’s a binary
question. Just yes or no.” He didn’t understand the unwillingness of even
really smart grown- ups to get the right answer to this question. “It was
weird to me,” he said. “I never understood why people bothered pretending
about this shit.”
From the widespread belief in God, and Santa, Sam drew a conclusion: it
was possible for almost everyone to be self- evidently wrong about
something. “Mass delusions are a property of the world, as it turns out,” he
said. He had to accept that there was nothing he could do about this. There
was no point in arguing with other kids’ belief in Santa Claus. Yet he didn’t
feel the slightest need to pretend to agree. He simply came to terms with the
fact that the world could be completely wrong about something, and he
could be completely right. There could be a kind of equilibrium in which
everyone in the world could remain wrong and he could remain right, and
neither side would even try to change the other’s mind. “There are times
when we’re just going to stare at each other,” said Sam.
One interpretation of Sam’s childhood is that he was simply waiting for it
to end. That’s how he thought about it, more or less: that he was holding his
breath until other people grew up so he could talk to them. “A lot of
childhood just never made sense to me,” he said. “If you don’t find it
magical to think about Santa Claus then it’s just fucking dumb.” Although
he found it easier to talk with adults than with children, the connections he
made with the adults were no stronger than those he made with other kids.
In some deep way, he sensed, he remained cut off from other human beings.


--- PAGE 37 ---

He could read them, but they couldn’t read him. “There were some things I
had to teach myself to do,” he said. “One is facial expressions. Like making
sure I smile when I’m supposed to smile. Smiling was the biggest thing that
I most weirdly couldn’t do.” Other people would say or do things to which
he was meant to respond with some emotional display. And instead of
faking it, he questioned the premise. What’s the whole point of facial
expressions in the first place? If you’re going to say something to me, just
say it. Why do I have to grin while you do it?
Very early on, Sam realized that he’d need to acquire abilities most
people just took for granted. But he also knew that he could take for granted
abilities that other people sweated to learn. When the teacher said that Sally
had thirteen apples in her basket, then picked twice as many apples as she
already had and added them to that same basket, Sam knew faster than the
other kids how many apples Sally had in her basket. In kindergarten a
teacher had suggested to Barbara and Joe that they remove him from public
school and enroll him in a school for gifted kids. “We thought she was
bats,” said Barbara. For the next seven years they were given no reason to
think they’d made a mistake. Right through middle school Sam was a good
but not great student, defined mainly by his disinterest in whatever his
teacher was saying. “I was obedient in that I wouldn’t do shit I wasn’t
supposed to do,” said Sam. “But I wouldn’t necessarily do shit I was
supposed to do. I would just be sitting there in a stupor.”
It was in middle school that he became conscious of the fact that he was
not a happy person. Depression took many forms, and his was of the low- ‐
level, simmering kind. “I think in general when people are depressed they
know they are depressed,” he said. “My form of it was not out- of- control
negative. My form of it was lack of positive.” He had a fault line inside
him, pressure was building on it, and one day, in the seventh grade, it
slipped. His mother returned from work to find Sam alone, in despair. “I


--- PAGE 38 ---

came home, and he was crying,” recalled Barbara. “He said, ‘I’m so bored
I’m going to die.’ ” Barbara and Joe organized a small group of parents to
beseech the school to offer an advanced math class. The school relented and
brought in a special teacher. “The class met at seven,” recalled Barbara.
“And for the first time Sam just jumped out of bed at six thirty. Up till then
there wasn’t a real clear indicator that he was special.” It was then that
Barbara and Joe decided to spend the money to send him to a fancy private
high school, Crystal Springs Uplands.
Crystal Springs made no difference. “I hated it there too,” said Sam. “The
whole way through. I didn’t like classes. I didn’t like my schoolmates. I was
bored.” The student body was a who’s who of Silicon Valley children.
(Steve Jobs’s son, Reed, was in Sam’s class.) By most standards it was a
nerdy school. A jock was a person who ran track. To Sam it still felt
unserious. “It was a lot of moderately unambitious really rich kids,” he said.
“The one thing they knew is they didn’t have to worry. So there was not a
lot of drive, and not a lot of pressure. Everyone went to Stanford.” He
wanted to think about things the other kids had no interest in— including
thinking— and he had no interest in what they wanted to think about. He
didn’t even bother trying to fit in. Everyone else carried a backpack; he
alone showed up with a rolling bag whose wheels thump- thump- thumped
over the cobblestones as he moved from class to class. When weaker
students conferred before a test, they sometimes tried to get him to join in,
in the hope that he might save them. Sam wanted no part of it. “He was like,
‘Sorry, you’re on your own,’ ” recalled one classmate. “I think he felt above
a lot of it. In class he had the attitude of being above a lot of things. He was
not liked or disliked. He was just kind of there.” Said another classmate,
“He was the butt of jokes made by people who sort of pretended he was in
on them, but he wasn’t.” During the school campout Sam hadn’t even tried
to go to sleep. Everyone just thought that was weird. “I was viewed as


--- PAGE 39 ---

smart, as a nerd, not as a good guy or a bad guy,” said Sam. “Not really
viewed as a person. Smart and inoffensive and maybe not all that human.”
Worse, he didn’t totally disagree with his classmates’ assessment. “I didn’t
feel misunderstood. I felt like their half- assed guesses were in the right
ballpark.”
By high school Sam had decided that he just didn’t like school, which
was odd for a person who would finish at the top of his class. He’d also
decided that at least some of the fault lay not with him but with school.
English class, for instance. His doubts about English class dated back to the
sixth grade. That was when the teachers had stopped worrying about simple
literacy and turned their attention to deeper questions. “As soon as English
class went from ‘can you read a book’ to writing an essay about a book, I
completely lost interest,” recalled Sam. He found literary criticism bizarre:
Who cared what you felt or thought about a story? The story was the story,
with no provably right or wrong way to read it. “If they said talk about what
you like or don’t like, okay, I would do that,” he said. That’s not what they
were asking him to do, however. They were asking him to interpret the
book, and then judging him on his interpretations.
In elementary school he’d read the Harry Potter books over and over. By
the eighth grade he had stopped reading books altogether. “You start to
associate it with a negative feeling, and you stop liking it,” he said. “I
started to associate books with a thing I didn’t like.” He kept his thoughts
about the literary- industrial establishment to himself through middle school,
but by high school they began to leak out of him. “I objected to the
fundamental reality of the entire class,” said Sam of English. “All of a
sudden I was being told I was wrong— about a thing it was impossible to be
wrong about. The thing that offended me is that it wasn’t honest with itself.
It was subjectivity framed as objectivity. All the grading was arbitrary. I
don’t even know how you grade it. I disagreed with the implicit factual


--- PAGE 40 ---

claims behind the things that got good grades.” He’d sat through middle
school in a stupor, but by high school he was sure enough of his own mind
that he was willing to challenge his English teachers’ cherished beliefs on
grounds unrecognizable to English teachers. Their belief, for instance, that
Shakespeare was an especially good writer.
The plot twist in Much Ado About Nothing— typical of Shakespeare— relies on,
simultaneously, one- dimensional and unrealistic characters, illogical plots and obvious endings.
I mean, come on— kill someone because he thinks, with good reason, that his fiancée is
cheating on him? Beatrice is absurdly out of line in an unrealistic way; Benedick is absurd for
listening to her, and this is all supposed to be taken in stride.
To Sam’s way of thinking, the case against Shakespeare could be made with
basic statistics:
I could go on and on about the failings of Shakespeare . . . but really I shouldn’t need to: the
Bayesian priors are pretty damning. About half the people born since 1600 have been born in
the past 100 years, but it gets much worse than that. When Shakespeare wrote almost all
Europeans were busy farming, and very few people attended university; few people were even
literate— probably as low as ten million people. By contrast there are now upwards of a billion
literate people in the Western sphere. What are the odds that the greatest writer would have
been born in 1564? The Bayesian priors aren’t very favorable.*
That he still received good grades from his English teachers didn’t lessen
his skepticism of their enterprise. Why were they giving him an A? Why
were they giving any grade to anyone for what amounted to an opinion? “I
convinced the teachers that I was a good student, and thus I got good
grades,” he said. “It was self- fulfilling to a decent extent.” They gave him
an A because they didn’t want to explain why they didn’t give him an A. All
of humanities was like this for him: dopey stuff he wanted mainly to escape
but that somehow always lurked just around every corner. In choosing a
college to attend, Sam sought to ensure he’d never again be made to write
an essay about Jane Austen.


--- PAGE 41 ---

But even MIT, where he eventually landed, had a humanities
requirement. A single liberal arts class, which he satisfied by taking film
history, but even that grated on him. “Whatever cease- fire existed earlier in
my life was gone,” he said. “I was starting to get a little bit of a whiff of ‘I
don’t have to put up with it anymore.’ ” The very first question on the final
exam set him off. What’s the difference between art and entertainment?
“It’s a bullshit distinction dreamed up by academics trying to justify the
existence of their jobs,” wrote Sam, and handed the exam back.
He felt nothing in the presence of art. He found religion absurd. He thought
both right- wing and left- wing political opinions kind of dumb, less a
consequence of thought than of their holder’s tribal identity. He and his
family ignored the rituals that punctuated most people’s existence. He
didn’t even celebrate his own birthday. What gave pleasure and solace and a
sense of belonging to others left Sam cold. When the Bankman- Frieds
traveled to Europe, Sam realized that he was just staring at a lot of old
buildings for no particular reason. “We did a few trips,” he said. “I basically
hated it.” To his unrelenting alienation there was one exception: games. In
sixth grade Sam heard about a game called Magic: The Gathering. For the
next four years it was the only activity that consumed him faster than he
could consume it.
Magic had been created in the early 1990s by a young mathematician
named Richard Garfield. It was the first of a new kind of game, designed,
perhaps, for a new kind of person. Garfield had started with an odd
question: Could a strategic game be designed that allowed the players to
come to it with different equipment? He wasn’t sure if it was even possible.
You couldn’t allow poker players to show up with their own privately
curated decks, or chess players to come equipped with whichever pieces


--- PAGE 42 ---

they wanted to. You didn’t want players to be able to simply buy better
material and thus victory.
In the game Garfield designed, players did indeed buy their own playing
cards, and assembled their own decks for competition. Each of the cards
had a picture of some mythical character— a witch, a demon, and so on— ‐
and each character had its own special traits and a quantified ability to
inflict and withstand damage. (If Magic sounds similar to Storybook Brawl,
it’s because Storybook Brawl was one of many games modeled on Magic.)
But you couldn’t just buy the best cards— because you never knew which
cards would be the best. The game itself was unstable. The cards constantly
changed in ways that were impossible to anticipate: new cards were
introduced, and old cards were banned. The interactions between the cards
were too complicated to fully understand— at some point Garfield realized
even he could not predict what might happen in his own game, which he
liked. “The game is shallow if you know when you create it what the best
play is,” he said. “There should exist within the game a scenario where it is
impossible to determine a winning strategy.”
This was a radical notion: the game was ultimately unknowable. Merely
playing a lot and memorizing the best moves only got you so far, as from
one game to the next the best moves would change. “It makes it so players
have to constantly adapt the strategy to things no one could have
anticipated,” said Garfield. The people who were good at Magic were those
who found it easy to adapt their strategies. As the best strategy was not just
hard to know but unknowable, the people who were good at Magic were
also comfortable making decisions while being certain that they were
uncertain.
Sam was good at Magic. Inside the game he interacted more easily with
other people than he could outside it. Playing the game, he made his one
meaningful childhood friend, a boy named Matt Nass.† Matt was as chill as


--- PAGE 43 ---

a twelve- year- old boy could be. He had none of the neediness of other kids.
“Given the backdrop of I don’t understand kids in the first place, neediness
was a problem,” said Sam. Matt made zero social or emotional demands on
him. He didn’t need Sam to generate facial expressions, or to ask him
questions about himself, or really to do anything but play Magic.
Matt’s sheer lack of needs opened Sam up as much as Sam ever opened
up. Sam and Matt bought their cards together, and got driven together by
their parents to play local tournaments against grown men.‡ Eventually they
went on the junior circuit together— reaching, at the end of tenth grade, the
national championships in Chicago. Matt saw Sam as maybe no one else
did. “I think it’s easy to think of people who are extremely rational as
robotic,” he said, “but I really don’t think that applies to Sam. He was a
really rare combination of hyper- rational and extremely kind.” They drifted
apart in high school but attended colleges an hour’s drive from each other.
In the fall of Sam’s junior year, he knocked on Matt’s dorm room door. “I
was playing video games and too distracted to check my phone, so I had no
idea what had happened,” recalled Matt. That afternoon, Matt’s father, with
whom he was very close, had died of a heart attack. “Sam told me the news
in person and then drove me back to his nerd frat at MIT, where we played
board games and video games all night to distract me before I flew back
home the next day.”
Every life is defined not just by what happens in it but by what doesn’t.
The beginning of Sam’s life is as striking for what didn’t happen in it as for
what did. He could see he was different from most other kids. He made no
effort to join their games, and they didn’t understand his. He maintained
what he later called a “romantically positive” view of himself. “I didn’t
think it was a happy thing that I was different,” he said. “I thought it was a
cool thing.” His only weapon for defending himself against the derision of
his schoolmates was a shallow contempt, and a weak sense of his own


--- PAGE 44 ---

superiority. “But I never had a super principled reason for it. It was, I better
think that, or what do I have going for me?” He was perfectly positioned,
emotionally and intellectually, to make a religion of himself. What were the
odds of a mathematically gifted kid in the middle of Silicon Valley in the
early 2000s not picking up The Fountainhead and finding his inner life
inside? But that never happened.
Sam saw some merits in a certain kind of libertarianism. But he listened
to actual libertarians argue why, for instance, they shouldn’t need to pay
taxes. And he thought, Yeah, of course no one likes to pay taxes, but that’s
not exactly a philosophy. “They blurred the line between libertarianism as a
philosophy and selfishness as a philosophy,” he said. His internal wiring
didn’t carry this particular signal. “The notion that other people don’t matter
as much as I do felt like a stretch,” he said. “I thought it would be bizarre
even to think about.” It was one thing to feel isolated; it was another to
believe that one’s place of isolation was the center of the universe. Or that
you and what happened to you were the only things that mattered. “It felt
unambitious to not care about what happened to the rest of the world,” said
Sam. “It was shooting too low to only think about what was going to impact
me.”
In their day jobs, his parents continually wrestled with the tension, in
American law, between individual freedoms and the collective good. Both
identified, broadly speaking, as utilitarians: any law should seek not to
maximize some abstract notion of freedom but rather the greatest good for
the greatest number. They never pushed their views on Sam, but Sam of
course heard them. And his parents mostly made sense to him. Around the
time he stopped reading books, he turned to utilitarian message boards on
the internet. He might not have felt connections to individual people, but
that only made it easier for him to consider the interests of humanity as a
whole. “Not being super close to that many particular people made it more


--- PAGE 45 ---

natural to care not about anyone in particular but about everyone,” he said.
“The default wiring I had was, ‘Yeah, there’s not anyone who doesn’t
matter. So I guess I should care the same amount about everyone.’ ” One
day, at the age of twelve, he had popped out of his room and made an
impassioned point in defense of utilitarianism. “I was just stunned when I
realized that’s what he was doing in his bedroom,” said Barbara. As Sam
would later explain:
When I was about 12 years old I was first becoming politically aware and started to think
through social issues. Gay marriage was a no brainer— you don’t have to be a hardcore
utilitarian to see that making people’s lives miserable because they’re completely harmlessly a
little bit different than you is stupid. But abortion was nagging me a bit. I was pretty conflicted
for a while: having unwanted kids is bad, but so was murder.
Then Sam framed abortion as a utilitarian might. Not by dwelling on the
rights of the mother or the rights of the unborn child but by evaluating the
utility of either course of action.
There are lots of good reasons why murder is usually a really bad thing: you cause distress to
the friends and family of the murdered, you cause society to lose a potentially valuable member
in which it has already invested a lot of food and education and resources, and you take away
the life of a person who had already invested a lot into it. But none of those apply to abortion.
In fact, if you think about the actual consequences of an abortion, except for the distress caused
to the parents (which they’re in the best position to evaluate), there are few differences from if
the fetus had never been conceived in the first place. In other words, to a utilitarian abortion
looks a lot like birth control. In the end murder is just a word and what’s impor tant isn’t
whether you try to apply the word to a situation but the facts of the situation that caused you to
describe it as murder in the first place. And in the case of abortion few of the things that make
murder so bad apply.§
This was how Sam figured out who he was: by thinking about things for
himself, without a whole lot of concern for the thoughts of others. There
were two brief periods, however, when he had someone around to think
about things with. Playing Magic with Matt Nass was one; math camp was


--- PAGE 46 ---

the other. After his freshman year in high school, he went to a summer
camp for mathematically gifted kids, on the Colby College campus. (Joe
drove him there and got lost— then saw an awkward- looking kid sitting
under a tree, fiddling with a Rubik’s Cube. “That’s when I knew we’d found
the place,” said Joe.) For Sam, math camp was a revelation: here were kids
with whom he had something in common. At math camp people didn’t
seem to care about his lack of facial expressions. At math camp he had
conversations with other people that resembled the conversations he’d been
having with himself. When other kids spoke about politics, it wasn’t to
express some dumb opinion. It was to figure out the best way to model
elections and predict their outcomes. When they discussed their lives and
how they might live them, they actually made sense to him. Math camp kids
could think their way to a belief. “And if you can’t think your way to a
belief, how can you think your way to an action?” asked Sam.
At math camp Sam found people drawn to the flavor of utilitarianism that
appealed to him. “For the first time I wasn’t one of the smartest,” said Sam.
“Each of the campers was more interesting than the most interesting person
in high school. They were smarter in every way. They were also more
quantitative. But they had more distance from standard culture and felt less
pressure or less ability to conform.”
At the center of math camp social life was not math but puzzles and
games. Sam knew he loved games; after math camp he loved puzzles, too.
When he got home he decided to create his own puzzles, for others to solve.
Math camp had alerted him to the existence of people not entirely different
from himself. He used these puzzles to seek them out. He’d put out an APB
on every nerd site on the internet. Some weekends, one hundred socially
awkward humans of every age from all over the Bay Area would turn up on
the Stanford campus to find Sam waiting with a puzzle. Solving the first
puzzle led them to some other place on campus, where, if they ever reached


--- PAGE 47 ---

it, they’d find another puzzle, also created by Sam. Solving that puzzle
would lead them to yet another place on campus, and yet another puzzle,
and so on. On and on this went, for hours, until some genius arrived at, in
essence, Sam’s horcrux. Sam’s puzzle hunts were seriously complicated.
But he also created some simpler puzzles and put them online. Like this
one:
Sam’s biggest puzzle remained himself. Before math camp, he’d told
himself that he was smarter than other people. Math camp disproved that
theory. “This feels like the place for me more than anyplace I’ve ever
been,” he said. “But I’m below average. I didn’t think there was anything
about me that made me special, and it bothered me. Nothing I did— no
pieces of knowledge I had— set me apart at math camp.” By math camp
standards he was only mediocre at puzzles and games. But he also
suspected that the sorts of games they played at math camp were too regular
for his mind. “The place I am strongest is the place where you have to do


--- PAGE 48 ---

things other people would find shocking,” he said. He still had no idea
where in the world, if anywhere, he might find such a place. Or if it existed.
* From a blog Sam wrote as a college sophomore, but he’d made this argument as a high school
junior.
† Matt grew up to be an inventor of games. He created Storybook Brawl.
‡ These events were overwhelmingly male. Populated by a certain kind of guy. It tells you something
about Magic culture that tournament rules eventually included standards of personal hygiene, after
players began to weaponize their body odor.
§ Same sophomore college blog. In this case, the thoughts date back to the seventh grade.
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 49 ---

A
3
META GAMES
fter not much happening in the life of Sam Bankman- Fried for a very
long time, two big things occurred in the fall of 2012, at so nearly the
same time that it would soon be hard to remember that they had nothing to
do with each other. Sam had entered his junior year at MIT as just another
physics student who had lost his interest in physics. Approximately zero of
MIT’s physics majors became physicists anymore. Most went to work for
Google, or for high- frequency trading firms. Jump Trading, Tower Research
Capital, Hudson River Trading, Susquehanna International Group,
Wolverine Trading, Jane Street Capital: all these Wall Street companies
Sam had never heard of came to the job fair that year inside the MIT gym.
And he became just a little curious about them.
Even a few months earlier his curiosity would have surprised him. He’d
never had the slightest interest in money. He neither knew nor cared about
finance. Apart from a firmly held idea that he should evaluate his actions by
their utilitarian effects, he had no clue what to do with his life. He’d always
just thought that he’d wind up being some kind of professor, like his
parents. “I had sort of implicitly assumed that academia was the center of


--- PAGE 50 ---

morality,” he said. “It was where people were at least thinking of how to
have the most impact on the world.” Two years of college classes and the
previous summer’s internship, during which he’d helped MIT researchers
with their projects, had killed that assumption. During college lectures he’d
experienced a boredom that had the intensity of physical pain. He had no
ability to listen to a canned talk. He’d figure out where the professor was
going with whatever he was saying and, bang, he was out. The more Sam
saw of academic life, the more it felt like one long canned talk, created
mainly for narrow career purposes. “I sort of started to look at it from a
different perspective, and I got a little bit disillusioned,” he said. “There
was very little evidence that they were doing much of anything to change
the world. Or even thinking about how to have the most impact on the
world.”
Newly aware that he had no plan for the future, he’d gone to the job fair,
where he found all these booths run by Wall Street firms. He’d never heard
of any of them, but right away he could see that, whatever they did, they
weren’t all doing the same thing, because they were looking for different
kinds of people. Some advertised for “core developers,” or “programmers,”
while others were looking for “traders.” Sam had no talent for coding— the
two closest friends he’d made at MIT were both coders, but he still couldn’t
tell a good coder from a bad coder. About trading all he knew was that he
was not obviously unqualified to do it. He dropped his résumé with the
firms looking for traders. It still felt like a lark. “Someone told me that a lot
of physics majors go to work on Wall Street, and I thought, Eh, maybe, but
probably not.”
He was surprised when three different high- frequency trading firms
emailed him to invite him to interview for their summer internships:
Susquehanna, Wolverine, and Jane Street Capital. “It turned out that this
was a real thing,” he said. Exactly what it was remained a mystery, even


--- PAGE 51 ---

after the firms had reached out to him. You couldn’t just google “Jane Street
Capital” and learn anything useful about the place. There was hardly
anything about Jane Street Capital on the internet.¶ “I had no idea what to
expect,” said Sam. “I didn’t even know what types of interviews these were
going to be.”
He had three phone interviews with Jane Street traders, and they were
like no interviews he’d ever heard of. Something about his résumé must
have caught these people’s attention, but they didn’t seem to care about
anything on it. They didn’t ask him about what he was studying, or how
he’d spent his summer vacations. They didn’t ask for references or inquire
into his hobbies— or really attempt to learn anything about his life thus far
on earth. The Jane Street traders seemed to believe that no evaluation of
him other than their own was of any use in determining whether he was
suited to do what they did. But their questions were mostly just mental
math. The first ones were so trivial that Sam figured they must just be
trying to see how his mind responded when he was nervous. “What’s twelve
times seven?,” for example. And: “How sure are you of your answer?” The
more correct answers Sam supplied, the more complicated the mental math
became. If you roll two six- sided dice, what are the odds you get at least
one three? The odds of rolling a three with one die were obviously 1 in 6. If
you didn’t stop and think, you might guess the odds of rolling a three with
two dice were 1 in 3. The error in that answer could be seen if you reframed
the question: What are the chances of NOT rolling a three with two dice?
You had a 5- in- 6 chance of not rolling a three with a single die; to get the
odds with two dice, you multiplied five- sixths by five- sixths. So: 25/36ths.
There was an 11- in- 36 chance that, with a roll of two dice, you’d get one
three.
The in- person interview, in mid- November, was different. Jane Street
sent him a train ticket to New York City and provided a car and driver to


--- PAGE 52 ---

take him out to a disaster relief site in Totowa, New Jersey. Hurricane
Sandy had swept Jane Street out of its lower Manhattan offices. The
disaster site had an eerie industrial feel— the desks were all the same, you
needed a key to use the bathroom— but Sam hardly noticed. What
preoccupied him was what Jane Street wanted him to do for an entire day:
solve puzzles and play games. These games came with a warning label,
however. The Jane Street selection process was designed to minimize the
amount of valuable time the traders spent evaluating applicants. The
moment any interviewer disapproved of Sam’s play, the games would end,
and he’d be sent packing. The Jane Street trader who handed him a stack of
a hundred poker chips explained that this was his stake for the day— and
that no one who had lost all their chips playing the games he was about to
play had ever been given a job at Jane Street.
For the first game, Sam was grouped in a room with two other applicants
and a Jane Street trader. The trader dealt out a hand of poker, then asked
them each to reveal a single card. Then he started suggesting all these weird
wrinkles on poker. For example: You can pay four chips to exchange one of
your cards for a new one. Does anyone want to do that? After each new
card, the trader would stop play and try to provoke Sam and the other two
guys into making side bets with each other. Does anyone want to make odds
on the next card being a heart? How many clubs do you hold, collectively,
in your hands? This wasn’t poker. This was some kind of meta poker. Or a
jousting tournament, but with playing cards. Sam saw right away that the
key to the game was to make quick judgments about the expected value of
bizarre situations, and act on them. Yet none of the decisions actually felt all
that strange to him. “The thing that was surprising about them to me was
the lack of things that were surprising,” said Sam.
Of course, it was impossible to know just how accurately these games
identified great traders, because no one who played them poorly was given


--- PAGE 53 ---

a chance to trade. Still, at the end of that first round Sam was sitting on a lot
more chips than the other two applicants. At which point his interviewers
separated him from the other two applicants, whom he never saw again, and
put him through five more rounds of forty- five minutes each. All of the
games turned out to be as peculiar as the card game. The coin- flipping
game, for instance:
Here are ten coins, each differently weighted. One is a normal, evenly weighted coin, and thus
has a fifty percent chance of landing on heads (or tails). The other nine coins are all unevenly
weighted, though no two in exactly the same way. We’re not going to tell you how they are
weighted, except to say that some are weighted to land more often on heads and some on tails.
One coin might land on heads sixty- two percent of the time, for example, while another coin
might land on tails eighty percent of the time. You’ll be given thirty minutes to flip any coin you
wish. You’ll be allowed to flip one hundred times in total. For every heads that you flip, you
win one poker chip.
The Jane Street trader who was interviewing him finished explaining the
game and then asked: How much are you willing to pay to play? As you
could simply pick the evenly weighted coin and flip that a hundred times,
the expected value was at least fifty chips. Sam guessed he should be
willing to pay roughly sixty- five chips to play, though there was no way to
know, as they gave you no idea of the exact weighting of the coins. That
must have been, at worst, not an entirely wrong answer to the trader’s
question, as the trader allowed him to play. Once he began flipping the
weighted coins, the trader interrupted again, to offer him even more weird
gambles: Want to bet on what that next flip will be? Want to bet on the true
weighting of the coin you’ve now flipped five times that came up heads four
of them? Sam could see that there was no exactly right way to play, just
some wrong ones. Unless you were simply giving up, there was no point in
flipping the evenly weighted, 50- 50 coin, for example, as it gave you no
new information. A lot of very smart people wasted flips searching for the


--- PAGE 54 ---

optimal coin— that is, the one most heavily weighted toward heads. They’d
flip each coin five times, say, to gather the data they needed to make decent
statistical calculations. As a strategy it wasn’t totally dumb. But their desire
for greater certainty led them to waste a lot of flips on inferior coins. Sam’s
instinct was to pick an unevenly weighted coin and flip it until it came up
tails. Based on how many flips that took, and some dirty math, he’d then
decide whether to proceed with the coin or move on to another. He started
the game willing never to find the optimal coin so long as he found a good
enough one. The game, he sensed, was testing his relationship to
information: when he sought it, how he sought it, how he updated his
beliefs in response to it.
Jane Street poker wasn’t normal poker, and Jane Street coin flipping
wasn’t normal coin flipping. None of the Jane Street games were even
games, exactly, so much as games within games, or games about games.
The most difficult part of each game was seeing exactly what it was. “A
median American would take twenty minutes to just figure out what the
game was,” said Sam. “A Harvard student could understand the game, and a
Harvard math student could understand the game and the mathematical
structure underlying it. It’s a lot of quantitative information but not perfect
quantitative information. The idea is to give you partial knowledge and
relationships that can be only partially understood. And there’s time
pressure.” Sam thought time pressure favored him. It wasn’t that he thrived
under pressure; it was that he didn’t feel it. He wasn’t better than usual
when he was on a clock; he just wasn’t worse— and most people were.
Other people felt emotions; he did not. Most people, facing a complicated
problem and a ticking sound, had trouble seeing quickly what mattered and
what did not, especially if the problem had no perfect solution. Few of the
Jane Street traders’ questions had perfectly correct answers. They were
testing him for an ability to make messy judgments and act quickly on them


--- PAGE 55 ---

— and not to be too bothered about questions to which he did not, and could
not, know the answer. “It was all the intuitive decisions you make in Magic,
condensed down but even more complicated,” said Sam. “Even Magic does
not get you there.”
The puzzles that the Jane Street traders gave Sam to solve were designed,
like the betting games, to expose blind spots in his mind. The one about
baseball was the simplest example. What are the odds that I have a relative
who is a professional baseball player? one of the Jane Street traders had
asked him.
Sam’s first thought was to define the problem. If you didn’t define the
problem, you couldn’t solve it. “That was one thing he was testing for with
the question,” said Sam. “Did I realize that the question was ambiguous?”
What counted as a “relative”? he asked the trader. What did he mean by
“professional baseball players”? Every human being is related to every
other human being, in some sense. And lots of people who are not in the
major leagues are paid to play baseball. “Relative,” the Jane Street trader
said, was any second cousin or closer, and “pro baseball player” included
both major and minor leagues but nothing else. Sam guessed there were
roughly one hundred baseball teams that fit that definition, and that each
had roughly thirty players. So: three thousand active pro baseball players,
plus maybe another seven thousand retired ones. Ten thousand players in a
population of three hundred million Americans. So: one in thirty thousand
Americans had played or were playing pro baseball. Sam didn’t know off
the top of his head how many relatives the average American had, but he
thought thirty was a reasonable guess. Thus the odds this guy had a relative
who played pro baseball were roughly one in a thousand.
The numbers were obviously not exactly right, merely a good enough
start. But it was here that Sam paused his mental math and said, I think


--- PAGE 56 ---

there’s a decent chance you are asking me this question because it is salient
for you— because you have a relative who plays professional baseball.
Here things became tricky. The trader might have anticipated that Sam
would have this thought. The trader might have intentionally asked a
question that he had no special reason to ask, just to trick Sam. Here was
just another aspect of the puzzle: you had to figure out how many levels
down you should go before you should stop thinking. Sam decided, as he
nearly always did, that more than one level down was too clever by half. It
was far more likely that the guy had some reason to ask the question than
that he did not. He didn’t know by exactly how much, but the mere fact the
trader had asked the question shifted the odds that he had a relative who
played pro baseball to something better than one in a thousand. “That was
the other thing he was testing for,” said Sam. “Did I realize that there was
information in the question I was asked?”
In the end Sam put the odds at one in fifty. And it turned out that the Jane
Street trader did indeed have a second cousin who had played professional
baseball. But none of that was the point of the problem. The point was how
Sam framed it, or failed to. “There were no right answers,” said Sam.
“There were only wrong answers.”
By the end of the day of interviews, Sam felt he’d discovered something
about himself. “I thought, This is correctly testing for something that
matters quite a bit, even if I find it hard to articulate what it is,” he said.
Nothing in normal life— not even the games and puzzles that had sustained
Sam through childhood— could serve as a proxy for whatever “traders” did
at Jane Street. “Childhood doesn’t give you a version of this that would tell
you that you are good at it,” said Sam. Childhood had given him math, at
which he’d been very good but not great. Childhood had given him various
strategic board and card games, at which he’d also been very good but not
great. The Jane Street traders had tested his mind for qualities it had never


--- PAGE 57 ---

been precisely tested for. And it appeared to Sam that God had tweaked
trading in various ways, or at least games intended to simulate trading, to
make it different from math and board games. Each of those tweaks had
made the games more congruent with his mind. “By the end of the day it
was clear that it was by far the best I’d ever done at anything,” he said.
Jane Street offered him a summer internship. So for that matter did the
other high- frequency trading firms that had invited him to apply. One firm
had halted their interview process midway through and announced that Sam
had done so much better at their weird games and puzzles than every other
applicant that there was no longer any point in watching him play. Later, on
the Jane Street trading floor, one fellow trader still enjoyed dreaming up
games and puzzles and putting them to Sam, just to watch him play. Other
people would have no idea what she was talking about— would not even see
what the game was. Sam would not only instantly understand the game but
would play it beautifully.
Perfume in the mail, she’d once said to Sam.
Sent scent, he’d replied.
Britney Spears is no longer working.
Idle idol.
A Goldman Sachs analyst discovers a cash flow model that predicts the
future.
Profit prophet.
In the presence of strange new games, the relevant thought processes just
seemed to come to Sam.
One other oddly big thing happened to Sam at the beginning of his junior
year. Completely out of the blue, a twenty- five- year- old lecturer in
philosophy at Oxford University named Will Crouch* reached out and
asked to meet with him. Sam never learned how the guy had found him— ‐


--- PAGE 58 ---

probably from the writing Sam had been doing on various utilitarian
message boards. MacAskill belonged to a small group inside Oxford that
had embraced ideas hatched long ago by an Australian philosopher named
Peter Singer. He wanted Sam to join him for coffee, then attend a talk he
was about to give down the road at Harvard. Just then Sam was maybe the
least likely person in Cambridge, Massachusetts, to voluntarily attend a talk
by some random academic. But the fact that this professor had sought him
out (signaling, to Sam, a justifiable lack of self- importance), coupled with
the mention of Peter Singer’s name, caught his attention. Peter Singer was
at least partly responsible for the ideas Sam had about what to do with his
life.
Those ideas, in their modern incarnation, dated back to 1971, when
Singer was himself a twenty- five- year- old lecturer in philosophy at Oxford
University. The trigger for them had been an oncoming famine in
Bangladesh. The sight of people dying of hunger who might have been
saved if only other, richer people had sent food bothered Singer enough for
him to think about it. In an essay, called “Famine, Affluence, and Morality,”
he groped for a way to dramatize the nature of this moral failing. “I was
trying to think of an example when it would be wrong not to help even
though you are in no way responsible for the problem,” he said. The
example he came up with was of a person out on a walk coming upon a
child drowning in a pond. What, asked Singer, would you do in this
situation? You wouldn’t even think about it. You would leap into the pond
and save the child, even if it meant ruining your expensive new shoes. Then
why, asked Singer, were we so slow to send the equivalent of those
expensive new shoes to prevent a Bengali child from starving? “The whole
way we look at moral issues— our moral conceptual scheme— needs to be
altered, and with it, the way of life that has come to be taken for granted in
our society,” he wrote, in that first of what would be a lifetime of similar


--- PAGE 59 ---

salvos. We needed to go way beyond ruining our new shoes. Eventually he
came to the view that we needed to give what we had to others until the cost
to ourselves outweighed the benefits to them. We needed to stop thinking of
charity as a thing that was nice to do but okay not to do, and begin to think
of it as our duty.
Singer himself proceeded to do just this, and gave away more and more
of his own earnings. His essay naturally launched a thousand rebuttals from
other philosophers. “Teachers would assign it to students and say, ‘Your
task is to find where the argument is wrong,’ ” Singer recalled. There were
many obvious complaints: His story was about a single child: it was not
practical to save them all. Once you start down this road of giving away
everything but the bare minimum of what you need to survive, where do
you draw the line at what is enough? (“Sometimes There Is Nothing Wrong
with Letting a Child Drown” was the title of one rebuttal.) Beneath much of
the criticism was the feeling that Singer was making it too difficult for
ordinary affluent people to live a moral life. “It has been argued by some
writers . . . that we need to have a basic moral code which is not too far
beyond the capacities of the ordinary man, for otherwise there will be a
general breakdown of compliance with the moral code,” wrote Singer, in
one of his own rebuttals to this idea, in his original paper. “Crudely stated,
this argument suggests that if we tell people that they ought to refrain from
murder and give everything they do not really need to famine relief, they
will do neither, whereas if we tell them that they ought to refrain from
murder and that it is good to give to famine relief but not wrong not to do
so, they will at least refrain from murder.”
The academic debate turned out not to matter very much in the real
world, as ordinary affluent people simply ignored Singer. For nearly forty
years, whenever Singer’s ideas came up, no one did much of anything
except squirm in discomfort. At Princeton, the school brimming with


--- PAGE 60 ---

ordinary affluent people where Singer wound up teaching, he was permitted
to introduce a course in practical ethics only after students clamored for it.
But then, in 2009, a small group of young philosophers at Oxford
University set out to put Singer’s ideas into practice. A graduate student and
research associate named Toby Ord kicked it off by announcing that he
would donate a third of his salary to charities proven effective in poor
countries, then explained his reasoning. (At little inconvenience to himself
his money would save, over the course of Ord’s lifetime, eighty thousand
African children from blindness.) Will MacAskill followed with a charm
offensive to recruit young people on college campuses to join the cause.
“The thing that Toby and Will did was to say, ‘No, we think the argument is
sound,’ ” said Singer. The new social movement sprang directly from
Singer’s forty- year- old argument. Effective altruism, the Oxford
philosophers called their movement, after trying and failing to think of a
better name.
The argument that MacAskill put to Sam and a small group of Harvard
students in the fall of 2012 went roughly as follows: you, student at an elite
university, will spend roughly eighty thousand hours of your life working. If
you are the sort of person who wants to “do good” in the world, what is the
most effective way to spend those hours? It sounded like a question to
which there were only qualitative answers, but MacAskill framed it in
quantitative terms. He suggested that the students judge the effectiveness of
their lives by counting the number of lives they saved during those eighty
thousand hours. The goal was to maximize the number.
He then showed the students a slide listing the sorts of careers they might
pursue, were they to use their careers to save lives. He’d grouped these into
four broad categories and offered examples of each: Direct Benefiter
(doctor, NGO worker), Money- Maker (banker, management consultant),
Researcher (medical research, ethicist), and Influencer (politician, teacher).


--- PAGE 61 ---

Eventually, he told the students, you were going to have to choose which
sort of career you would pursue. Each career type came with the
opportunity to save lives, but the math was different for each, a bit like the
math for which hero to play in Storybook Brawl. A Researcher or an
Influencer stood a chance of saving some massive number of lives. The
agronomist Norman Borlaug (Researcher), for instance, had invented
disease- resistant wheat, which had saved roughly two hundred fifty million
people from starvation. Researcher and Influencer, however, were tricky
career choices: it was difficult to predict who would be good at them, and
even harder to forecast their effects. The odds of any given Researcher or
Influencer saving vast numbers of lives were vanishingly small.
The clearer choice— the choice MacAskill dwelled on in his talk— was
between Direct Benefiter and Money- Maker. Put bluntly: Should you do
good, or make money and pay other people to do good? Was it better to
become a doctor or a banker? MacAskill made a rough calculation of the
number of lives saved by a doctor working in a poor country, where lives
were cheapest to save. Then he posed a question: “What if I became an
altruistic banker, pursuing a lucrative career in order to donate my
earnings?” Even a mediocre investment banker could expect sufficient
lifetime earnings to pay for several doctors in Africa— and thus would save
several times more lives than any one doctor.
Then he pushed his point a step further, in the direction of the investment
banker. “Making a difference requires doing something that wouldn’t have
happened anyway,” he said. If you didn’t become a doctor, someone else
would take your place and the doctoring would still get done. Of course, if
you didn’t become a banker, someone else would also take your place— but
that person would spend his money on houses and cars and private schools
for his kids and perhaps some non- life- saving donations to Yale. Very little
of the replacement banker’s earnings would find its way to doctors in


--- PAGE 62 ---

Africa. All those people you might have saved if you had become a banker
and given away your money would die. Thus anyone with the ability to go
to Wall Street and make vast sums of money had something like a moral
obligation to do so— even if they found Wall Street faintly distasteful.
“Many lucrative careers are really pretty innocuous,” said MacAskill,
helpfully.
Earn to give, MacAskill called his idea. His final slide was an invitation:
“If you are convinced to any extent by the arguments given above, please
come up and speak with me afterwards.” Even before he was done, he knew
the sort of person who’d be coming up to speak with him: the sort of person
who scored an 800 on their math SAT, and understood that the test was too
crude to capture their full aptitude. Like Jane Street Capital, the effective
altruism movement had come to Cambridge, Massachusetts, for a reason.
Roughly three in four of the people who approached MacAskill after one of
his talks were young men with a background in math or science. “The
demographics of who this appeals to are the demographics of a physics PhD
program,” he said. “The levels of autism ten times the average. Lots of
people on the spectrum.”
A few days later MacAskill wrote an email to another newly minted
effective altruist, whom he hoped to introduce to Sam.
I met Sam in Cambridge MA the other day— he’s a junior physicist at MIT. Despite having the
geekiest email address ever† I was super impressed by him. He was brought up as a utilitarian
by his parents, two Stanford professors, is serious, dedicated, and committed to doing good,
and seems really smart and sensible too (i.e. takes some of the weirder ideas seriously, but isn’t
fanatic about them). He’s thinking about earning to give or going into politics.
Sam was only a step behind the first people responding to this new call to
arms. That fall of 2012, a student of Peter Singer’s at Princeton had just
become the first college student, to Singer’s knowledge, to take a job on


--- PAGE 63 ---

Wall Street for the express purpose of making money to give away. His
name was Matt Wage, and he’d been hired by Jane Street Capital.
In the presence of strange new games, the relevant thought processes just
seemed to come to Sam. In the presence of strange new people, not so much
— though it took Jane Street Capital a bit longer to figure that out. That’s
something they hadn’t tested for in the interviews. But at the end of the
summer of 2013, nine months after they’d hired him, Jane Street executives
sat Sam down to discuss his performance. The strengths he’d revealed in
the interviews were still clearly strengths. He’d been better at all the trading
games than most of the other interns. His mind was clearly well suited to
modern financial markets— so obviously so that, just a few weeks into the
summer internship, the Jane Street executives had taken him aside and
offered him a full- time job.
Sam’s weaknesses were the news. At the point of intake, no one at Jane
Street had tested Sam for his social abilities. None of his interviewers had
cared how he related to other people. The Jane Street executives now told
Sam that more than a few people inside the firm were asking the question
that people had often asked about him: Who is this guy? They’d compiled
what amounted to a rap sheet. Several things had occurred that summer to
cause the Jane Street executives to be a bit less sure of their feelings about
Sam. All had involved social interactions. Some Jane Street full- timers had
found Sam’s constant fidgeting annoying, especially the way he
compulsively shuffled playing cards. One senior Jane Street executive had
been seriously offended by the bluntness with which Sam had revealed the
stupidity of a question the executive had posed to a class of interns. Maybe
most alarmingly, more than a few Jane Streeters were disturbed by Sam’s
indifference to other people’s feelings. As an example, the Jane Street


--- PAGE 64 ---

executives cited what Sam had done to a fellow intern, here called Asher
Mellman.
Jane Street’s interns had been encouraged to gamble with each other and
with the full- time employees. All summer the interns had made bets with
each other, on anything they could think to bet on— which team would win
some game, how many jelly beans some intern could eat in forty- five
seconds, which interns would receive full- time job offers, and so on. To
keep things from getting out of hand, Jane Street set a loss limit of a
hundred dollars per day per intern. The gambling was a teaching tool. It
taught interns to turn gambles that most people would not make at all, or
make by the seat of their pants, into numbers that could be analyzed. It
compelled them to think quantitatively about qualitative things. To think
rigorously about everything— even a jelly- bean- eating contest. After all,
what Jane Street was looking for were traders who could think faster and
better than everyone else in global financial markets.
On the day in question, Sam hadn’t been looking for trouble. It was
Asher Mellman who approached him. Which surprised him, because Sam
could not stand Asher. Asher had come to Jane Street from Harvard, and
Sam had decided, fairly quickly, that he was “fake and stuck- up and
unimpressive.” (“He half had some maybe gig with Nate Silver and he
made sure everyone knew.”) Sam realized that his feelings were a reflection
more of his own tastes than of some universal loathsomeness of Asher’s.
“It’s not that he’s an unlikable guy in general,” said Sam. “Much of the
world likes him. But if you don’t like Asher, you really don’t like Asher.”
Sam especially didn’t like the way Asher tried to impress other people,
because what Asher found impressive about himself were precisely the
qualities Sam most disliked in others. Asher was pretentious about the food
he ate, and he put more thought than most Jane Street interns into the
clothes he wore. “He had opinions on what sweater was a nice sweater, and


--- PAGE 65 ---

what were not nice sweaters.” Sam knew that a lot of people, himself
included, were bad at distinguishing their pet peeves from legitimate
criticism. “It triggered me in specific ways that I know I’m sensitive to,”
said Sam. “Part of me is like, Jesus Christ, Sam, why do you care why he
cares what sweaters he’s wearing?” A bigger part of him cared.
And Asher had approached him. In the conference room, one morning.
Before Jane Street’s intern class.
Let’s make a bet, Asher had said.
On what?
On how much any one intern will lose gambling today.
Sam’s first thought was about adverse selection. Adverse selection was a
favorite topic at Jane Street. In this context it meant that the person most
eager to make a bet with you is the person you should be most worried
about betting against. When people wanted to bet— or trade— with you,
there was usually a reason: they knew something you did not. (That they
had a second cousin who had played in the minor leagues, for instance.)
The first thing you did when someone offered you a bet was to make sure
you weren’t missing what they might know. Some piece of information.
Some non- obvious angle to the problem. Lots of bets looked stupid after the
fact because the person on the receiving end hadn’t thought about why a bet
had been proposed in the first place. Jane Street hammered this bitter fact
into you every day, and these gambling games were the tool.
A full- time Jane Street trader might approach a group of interns and say
something like: I got some dice in my pocket. Anyone want to make a
market how many? The interns, primed to gamble, were also eager to
impress full- time Jane Street traders. And so some less savvy intern might
actually do it. He’d think it over and (because he’d read the Jane Street
guide on how to make markets) say something like, Two at five, one up.
(That is, he’d “buy” at two dice or “sell” at five dice.) Some other intern


--- PAGE 66 ---

who “sold” to the less savvy intern would be betting that the full- time Jane
Street trader had fewer than two dice in his pocket— and the smarter intern
would win one dollar for each die fewer than two the trader actually had
(“one up”). If the trader had zero dice in his pocket, the intern who had
made the market would owe the savvier intern two bucks. Anyone who
“bought” from the intern at five was betting that the trader had more than
five dice in his pocket— and would win a dollar for every die over five.
Thus if you “bought” at five, and the trader had only two dice in his pocket,
you would owe the intern three dollars. On the other hand, if the trader had
nine dice in his pocket, the intern owed you four dollars.
The full- time trader was not testing for an ability to make intelligent
guesses about the greatest and least number of dice held by a person who
walked around with dice in his pocket. He was testing to see if the intern
had the sense to ask meta- level questions: Why is this trader asking me how
many dice he has in his pocket? What risk might he be disguising? “Two at
five, one up” seemed reasonable— if you didn’t ask those questions. After
all, the trader probably had some dice in his pocket— otherwise why would
he be asking? And if he had more than five dice in his pocket, surely you’d
see a bulge. Two at five, one up was not reasonable, however. Two at five,
one up was all you needed to hear to know that the intern should never be
offered a full- time job as a Jane Street trader. This became obvious to all
after the intern said two at five, one up, and the other, smarter intern had
“bought” at five. And the trader pulled from his pocket sacks that contained
a grand total of 723 extremely tiny dice.
I just want to be clear, Sam had said to Asher Mellman. This cannot
settle above one hundred or below zero, right? (That is, the most that any
intern might lose in a day is one hundred dollars, and the least is zero.)
Right, said Asher.
You really want to bet against me? asked Sam.


--- PAGE 67 ---

Yes.
Why?
It’d be fun.
You a buyer or a seller?
Depends on the price, said Asher.
Sam now knew most of what he needed to know— that Asher had not
thought hard enough about this bet he’d dreamed up. “If I were a more
mature person, I would not have taken the bet,” said Sam. Instead, he said,
I’m a buyer, at fifty. (As a “buyer” Sam was betting on an intern loss of
more than fifty dollars that day. If the biggest loser that day lost only forty
dollars, Sam would owe Asher ten dollars. If the biggest loser lost sixty
dollars, Asher would owe Sam ten dollars.)
Sixty- five, countered Asher. Sam promptly accepted, then turned to the
other interns in the room and shouted: Who wants to flip a coin with me for
ninety- eight dollars? The day’s lecture hadn’t started, but the conference
room was filling up. A bunch of interns already were hanging around,
waiting. I’ll pay a dollar to anyone who will do it! shouted Sam. (“By then
the interns are all addicted to gambling, and to positive expected value
gambling more than anything in the world.”) To the Jane Street way of
thinking, Sam was offering free money. A Jane Street intern had what
amounted to a professional obligation to take any bet with a positive
expected value. The coin toss itself was a 50- 50 proposition, and so the
expected value to the person who accepted Sam’s bet was a dollar: (0.5 ×
$98) –  (0.5 × $98) + $1 = $1. The expected value of Sam’s position was
even better, thanks to his side bet with Asher that paid him a dollar for
every dollar over sixty- five lost that day by any intern. After the coin flip,
either Sam or some other intern would have lost ninety- eight dollars: win or
lose the coin flip, Sam would collect thirty-three dollars from Asher (the
difference between ninety- eight and sixty- five).


--- PAGE 68 ---

Only Asher had negative expected value. Asher lost whatever happened.
And Asher was now clearly deeply embarrassed.
Sam won the first coin flip. But that was just the start. To maximize
Asher’s pain, some intern needed to lose one hundred dollars.
I’ll pay a dollar to anyone who will flip me for ninety- nine dollars, Sam
shouted.
Now he had a machine for creating wagers in which both parties enjoyed
positive expected value. That machine was named Asher. Interns were lined
up to take the bet. “People get so obsessed with free dollars when you frame
it correctly,” said Sam. He was by then in full obsessive gaming mode.
“There was nothing that was going to stop me. If I’d have spent the rest of
the internship flipping that coin, I’d have been satisfied.” And for a while it
appeared that he might, as he won the second coin flip too.
I’ll pay a dollar to anyone who will flip me for ninety- nine fifty, shouted
Sam.
The other interns clearly felt obligated to take the bets, but the mood in
the room was shifting in response to Asher’s feelings. Plus the Jane Street
trader who was meant to deliver the lecture had arrived and was watching
the whole thing. But Sam won the third coin flip too, so to his way of
thinking the gambling wasn’t yet over.
I’ll pay a dollar to anyone who’ll flip me for ninety- nine seventy- five, he
shouted.
It wasn’t until the fourth flip that Sam lost— and by then everyone except
Sam was unsettled by Asher’s humiliation. And yet Sam was ever so
slightly taken aback, a few weeks later, when his superiors expressed their
dismay at what he’d done. “They said the second coin flip was already one
too many,” said Sam. He wasn’t surprised to learn that Asher Mellman felt
wounded. What surprised him was that his Jane Street bosses thought that
he somehow missed the effect he was having on other people. He’d known


--- PAGE 69 ---

exactly what he was doing. What he’d done to Asher was no more than
what Jane Street was doing to competitors in financial markets every day.
“It was not like I was unaware I was being a piece of shit to Asher,” he said.
“The relevant thing was: Should I decide to prioritize making the people
around me feel better, or proving my point?” Sam thought his bosses had
misread his social problems. They thought he needed to learn how to read
other people. Sam believed the opposite was true. “I read people pretty
well,” he said. “They just didn’t read me.”
¶ Jane Street Capital, like the other high- frequency trading firms, felt very strongly that it was better
off if the public did not know what it did. “The first time a New York Times piece appeared about
them, there was like a nuclear meltdown,” recalled one former Jane Street employee— who, like the
other ten current and former Jane Street employees who helped me to understand what went on there,
prefers to remain unidentified.
* He’d later change it to Will MacAskill, so I’ll do that here too.
† Sam’s email address was a Fibonacci sequence, a set of numbers each of which, beginning with the
third number, is the sum of the preceding two. 0 1 1 2 3 5 8 13, and so on.
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 70 ---

T
4
THE MARCH OF PROGRESS
he Jane Street trading floor was one big room with lots of weird
sounds. The sound effects were selected to alert traders that there
might be some problem or issue that they should attend to. The shriek of
glass shattering warned traders that their machines had done some trade at a
weirdly bad price, for instance. The “1- Up” sound from Super Mario Bros.,
Homer Simpson saying “D’oh!,” a voice from the original StarCraft game
that boomed, “You Must Construct Additional Pylons!”— if you didn’t
know what was going on, it sounded like an arcade. In busier moments the
din reached the point that one job candidate, being interviewed by phone,
complained that her Jane Street interviewer was playing video games. After
that, Jane Street instructed its traders to explain before all phone interviews
that they weren’t playing video games. “The sound drives some people
crazy,” said Sam. “I loved it. It immersed you in the trading.”
There was a dance between financial markets and the people who worked
in them. The people shaped the markets, but then the markets in turn shaped
the people. The markets that were about to shape Sam Bankman- Fried had
themselves, over the previous decade or so, been reshaped in ways that


--- PAGE 71 ---

mostly reduced the sounds they made. The 2008 financial crisis wasn’t
exactly responsible for what was going on, but it had played a role.
Investment banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley that had once
taken the most interesting trading risks had become clunkier and more
heavily regulated. They were being shoved into the boring Wall Street role
once played by the big commercial banks. The trading action had moved
into a new class of private trading firms shrouded in secrecy. By 2014,
when Sam started as a full- time trader at Jane Street Capital, the financial
institutions at the center of markets— those setting the prices of global
assets— were not the old investment banks but opaque high- frequency
trading firms, like Jane Street, that basically no one had ever heard of. The
sums of money made by the people who ran these places were orders of
magnitude greater than what the people who ran the big investment banks
had ever made. In 2013, the guy who’d created Virtu Financial, Vinnie
Viola, shelled out a quarter of a billion dollars for the Florida Panthers
hockey team. The guy who created Citadel Securities, Ken Griffin, was
worth $5.2 billion, according to Forbes. Jane Street didn’t disclose profits,
even to employees, but Sam could see the full record of its trades and
guessed that in each of the previous five years it likely had made profits of
at least a couple of billion dollars for its handful of partners. “By 2014 you
just had to look at the average IQ of the people going to Morgan Stanley
and the people going to Jane Street to know what was happening,” said
Sam.
The new financial markets had some peculiar properties. For a start, they
were increasingly automated. People didn’t trade directly with people.
People programmed computers to trade with other computers. Removing
humans enabled financial trades to happen faster and more frequently than
ever before. Speed became maybe the single most valuable attribute in a
trading system. The markets were engaged in a kind of information


--- PAGE 72 ---

deforestation— an attempt to reduce to zero the amount of time it took for
any piece of information to be registered in the prices of financial assets.
“It’s the most complex and efficient game in the world,” said Sam. “More
effort has gone into optimizing the game than has gone into anything else.”
From the sums of money being extracted from the game— and the sums of
money being handed by high- frequency trading firms to US stock
exchanges for faster access to their data— you could see that an advantage
of a few milliseconds was clearly worth billions a year to whoever
possessed it. Whether the speed added anything of value to the economy
was another question: Did it really matter if asset prices adjusted to new
information in two milliseconds rather than a second? Probably not, but the
new technology definitely made it possible for the financial sector to raise
the rents that it charged the real economy.
It also changed the kind of person who was extracting those rents. As late
as the summer of 2014 you could still see, in the shapes of the bodies on the
Jane Street trading floor, the changes that had occurred in financial markets.
The older traders, anyone over the age of thirty, were built differently than
the younger ones. They were bigger and taller. Their voices were louder.
The people who had founded Jane Street back in 1999 were a motley crew
of white guys from all over the place. They’d come of age at a time when
trading was still done human- to- human, either on trading floors or in
trading pits. In a crowd their bodies needed to be seen and their voices
needed to be heard. They were also less obviously intellectually gifted.
They tended to be quick at mental math but less good at higher- order
analytical thinking. On one of those “March of Progress” charts that
dramatized the evolution from ape to man they represented perhaps the
penultimate stage of Financial Man: hair mostly gone, nearly upright, but
still carrying a club on their shoulder, which they used to impose a greater
taste for hierarchy on the more egalitarian younger traders.


--- PAGE 73 ---

The younger traders were full Homo sapiens. They’d been harvested
from the tiny slice of the population identified early in life as having a gift
for higher- order thinking. Many had gone to math camp in high school.
Almost all had excelled in computer science or math at MIT, Harvard,
Princeton, or Stanford. They were less socially adept than the older traders,
because they could afford to be. Now that trading was done machine- to- ‐
machine, it mattered less how well traders negotiated with other people.
What mattered was their ability to help the machine replace humans in
financial markets— either directly, by writing code, or indirectly, by giving
instructions that might be codified. To their minds it was silly not to just let
the computer do all the mental math.
But there were limits to how socially off- putting a trader could be at Jane
Street. Sam had tested them. After his summer internship, he’d set out to
address his superiors’ criticisms. He’d long since realized that his inability
to convey emotion created a distance between himself and others. Just
because he didn’t feel the emotion didn’t mean he couldn’t convey it. He’d
started with his facial expressions. He practiced forcing his mouth and eyes
to move in ways they didn’t naturally. “It’s not totally trivial to fake things,”
he said. “It was physically painful. It felt unnatural. And I wasn’t good at it.
It didn’t look right.”
In the beginning he was unsure whether his efforts would be an
improvement on the status quo, but he suspected they couldn’t make things
worse. An ability to smile would not have changed how he treated Asher
Mellman, but it might have changed the way other people felt about it. An
ability to signal to others how he felt about whatever they had said or done
would, at the very least, avoid a lot of misunderstanding. Sure enough, on
the trading floor he finally began to see a smoothening in the surface of his
relationships with other people. “It wasn’t until Jane Street that I got decent


--- PAGE 74 ---

at it,” he said. “It became easier. Like my muscles started to loosen up. And
it made people like me more. It made me able to fit in better.”
Jane Street had installed him on what was then the firm’s most profitable
desk, the one that traded international ETFs. Exchange- traded funds pooled
assets (stocks, bonds, commodities) that might otherwise be difficult for
investors to buy on their own. The first US- listed ETF ever, hatched in
1993, was still the biggest: a fund created by the American Stock Exchange
and State Street Global Advisors that contained all the stocks in the S&P
500. Later there’d be ETFs for everything. ETFs that held only stocks of
small Indian companies, or big Brazilian ones. ETFs filled with fishing
industry stocks, or only the shares of marijuana companies, or only the
companies Warren Buffett invested in. Any investment idea you could
dream up could be expressed in the form of an ETF and sold to the
investing public— in 2021 someone created an ETF that invested in
companies whose products were beloved by upper- middle- class American
women. Without ever tapping outside capital, Jane Street had gone from a
few traders with a few million dollars, in 1999, to roughly two hundred
traders working with several billion dollars, in 2014. One big reason was
ETFs, whose global value had grown from less than $100 billion to $2.2
trillion (on its way to more than $10 trillion in 2022). When ETFs changed
hands, Jane Street was often present to take an ant- bite- sized piece of the
transaction.
The role of the Jane Street trader— one of the biggest sources of profits
— was to keep the prices of all of these ETFs in line with the assets inside
of them. The price of any pool of assets should always, in theory, be equal
to the sum of the assets in the pool. Trading an ETF was like trading a ham
and cheese sandwich, as one Jane Street trader put it. If you know the price
of a slice of ham, a slice of cheese, and a slice of bread, you know what the
price of the sandwich should be: the sum of the ingredients. If the cost of


--- PAGE 75 ---

the ingredients exceeded the price of the sandwich, you bought the
sandwich and sold the ingredients. If the price of the sandwich exceeded the
cost of the ingredients, you bought the ingredients and sold the sandwich.
Part of Sam’s day was spent bringing the price of lots of ham and cheese
sandwiches into line with the cost of their ingredients. He spent the first
ninety minutes of every trading day just figuring out what was inside the
sandwich— as overnight the precise content of the ETFs would change. The
least exciting part of his job, the sandwich game was not without its
moments. The companies that created ETFs essentially exported the
problem of pricing their creations to Jane Street and other high- frequency
trading firms. If some investor showed up and said they wanted to buy, say,
$100 million worth of some ETF filled with Indian stocks, they’d be
directed to Sam, who would give them a price. To determine the price, Sam
couldn’t make some simple calculation, using the current prices of the
stocks inside the ETF, once he’d figured out what those were. He’d
eventually need to buy the individual stocks, and his demand would drive
their prices up by some difficult- to- know amount. He’d also have to pay
Indian financial transaction taxes— so he needed to take that into account.
The Indian stock exchange didn’t open until 9:15 a.m. Mumbai time, or
11:45 p.m. New York time. Until it opened, Sam would be unable to buy
Indian stocks and would remain exposed to any news that might affect the
market. He’d need to consider the identity of the ultimate buyer, as some
buyers were likely to have better information about Indian stocks than he
did. He’d also need to consider the possibility that one or more of the other
high- frequency trading firms asked to offer the stock were about to front- ‐
run the trade and drive Indian stock prices higher. On top of it all, he had
maybe fifteen seconds to come up with a price— though if he were lucky
he’d have a bit of warning and maybe a few hours to think it over. Either


--- PAGE 76 ---

way, other traders were always competing to do the same trade. On any
given trade, there was never a lot of fat.
And so these ETF trades weren’t riskless. As a rule, Sam was always
choosing which weighted coin to flip. And the real world seldom offered
you coins weighted dramatically in your favor. You didn’t get to flip an 80- ‐
20 coin; if you were lucky, you flipped a 60- 40 coin; more likely you spent
most of your day flipping a 53- 47 coin. Of course, even a coin weighted in
your favor would land on the wrong side on lots of flips, and so even if you
did your job well you might lose money. The idea at the heart of Jane
Street’s business was to make sure no single flip, or flipper, made all that
much difference. The firm’s two hundred traders all had some unusual
aptitude for identifying weighted coins. Collectively they flipped coins
millions of times a day. The law of averages would eventually enforce
itself. But Jane Street still had losing trading days, and losing trading weeks
and even, rarely, losing trading months.‡ “The biggest risk was that we
wouldn’t find enough coins to flip,” said Sam.
Like all the Jane Street traders, Sam was forever looking for ways to
automate his trading decisions. As the writer Byrne Hobart put it, Jane
Street traders were engaged “in a constant process of finding and extending
the efficient frontier of where computers can replace humans in finance.”
The job of the Jane Street trader was not simply to optimize financial
markets but to optimize himself, by keeping his attention focused on the
most valuable decision he might make. Teach the machine to make certain
decisions and you freed yourself up to go looking for new weighted coins to
flip. To empower the machine, you needed only to identify the patterns in
markets that could be captured in computer code. Do that and, when
investors asked you to offer $100 million worth of the Indian ETF, you
didn’t need to sit and calculate the financial transaction taxes you’d pay, the
degree to which the buyer was toxic, or even how much the prices of


--- PAGE 77 ---

various Indian stocks were likely to rise when the market opened. You
could just hit a button, and the machine would make the judgments, and the
trade would happen, or not.
Of course, you still had to keep one eye on it. If, say, a nuclear bomb had
exploded in Mumbai after the close of the Indian stock market, you didn’t
want a pre- programmed machine buying and selling stock. The Jane Street
trader treated the machines as robot arms; they allowed you to do a lot more
than you could with your own naked arms, but you still had to stick your
own arms into them for them to operate. Most of the time the machine was
far better than the human at trading decisions, especially when the human
only had fifteen seconds to think about them. “I felt most valuable when I
was identifying areas where it hadn’t been automated but could be
automated,” said Sam. “It was better than people, because the people had to
do it so fast.”
Jane Street made money in the sandwich business. Jane Street also made
money by finding statistical patterns missed by others in the markets. Of
course, traders have sought patterns missed by markets for as long as
anyone has traded anything. The difference between what happened at Jane
Street and what happened on, say, a Wall Street trading floor in the 1980s
was one of degree rather than of kind. Data had fully replaced feel. The
standard procedure at the firm was for the traders to watch the machines
trading out of the corner of their eye while they ran little research projects.
(The trading occupied roughly the same place in Sam’s attention that video
games later would.) A trader on the international ETF desk, for instance,
might start with the following question: When the price of oil moves during
US trading hours, what happens to the ETFs filled with stocks of companies
in big oil- producing countries whose markets are closed? If oil prices pop
higher during lunchtime in New York City, the shares of, say, Nigerian
companies will probably follow them higher— but the Nigerian stock


--- PAGE 78 ---

market is closed. ETFs filled with Nigerian stocks, however, are live and
trading on US exchanges. Perhaps these US- listed ETFs did not respond as
quickly as they should have to movements in oil prices? Perhaps there is a
chance to anticipate the rise that will inevitably occur in Nigerian stocks
when the Nigerian stock market opens tomorrow? Perhaps others had not
thought of this? There was no way to answer those questions without
running a study of the historical price movements. Jane Street’s traders
spent a lot of their time engaged in these financial research projects.
It wasn’t enough for the trader to make money. You needed to be able to
explain why you were making money. A great trader at Jane Street was not
a great trader unless he could explain why he was a great trader— and why
some great trade existed. As one former trader put it, “It was, Why are you
great, and how do we replicate you? And if you could not answer the
question, they doubted you.” But these little research projects didn’t need to
begin in a dignified way, with some theory about why some market might
be inefficient. Often they’d be triggered by some weird event the trader had
observed while trading. For example, you might notice, as Sam once did,
that exactly twelve hours after the price of certain South Korean stocks rose
on the Seoul stock exchange, the price of certain other Japanese stocks rose
on the Tokyo stock exchange. Your first thought might be that this is merely
a coincidence. But then it keeps happening. You dig into some old data and
find that the same thing has been happening in these stocks for several
months. You might trade on it— and buy the Japanese stocks the instant the
South Korean stocks rise. You might even make money.
You wouldn’t have satisfied the Jane Street system, however, because
you didn’t know why the Japanese stocks were rising in price twelve hours
after the South Korean stocks. And so you looked even further into it— as
Sam had. And he found that the prices of both the South Korean and the
Japanese ETFs were being driven by a single trader at a German bank.


--- PAGE 79 ---

Every few days, the German bank trader had a bunch of buy orders to
execute, in both South Korea and Japan. He’d make his South Korean
purchases before calling it a day, passing the Japan orders off to his Asian
colleagues to handle when they awakened in Tokyo. The Jane Street trader
could now happily see the pop in the South Korean ETF and buy the
Japanese ETF until the German died, retired, or figured out how much his
laziness was costing him.
Sam found lots of trades whose success turned on the idiocy of some
other trader or trading algorithm. Asher trades. For a two- week stretch,
Canada’s main stock market index behaved weirdly at the opening every
morning. At 9:30 it would pop higher or drop lower with unusual violence
and then, at 9:31, revert to its previous levels. That wasn’t how a market
normally behaved in response to news. Something else was going on. Sam
made a study and discovered that a month earlier, someone had done a
massive, multibillion- dollar- contract- sized trade in options on the Canadian
stock market index. The trader who had done it needed to hedge his
position whenever the price of the Canadian index moved. To do this, the
trader had created a bot, which mindlessly bought the Canadian index when
it went up, and sold the Canadian index when it went down, thus causing it
to go either up or down more than it otherwise would have done. On days
the Canadian stock market opened at a higher price than the day before, the
bot would buy the index, driving its price even higher, requiring the bot to
buy even more. It did the same thing in reverse when the index opened at a
lower price than the day before. For two weeks Sam’s trading desk made a
small fortune simply by selling the Canadian index after the bot had bought
it, and buying the Canadian index after the bot had sold it, until the trader
who had created the bot wised up and turned it off. “It was essentially
reverse engineering someone else’s dumb algo,” said Sam.


--- PAGE 80 ---

The constant hunt for statistical patterns in markets led to all sorts of
strange insights. Every time Brazil won a World Cup match, the Brazilian
stock market tanked, for instance, because the win was thought to increase
the shot at reelection of Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff, perceived to be
corrupt. A faster and better sense of the Brazilian soccer team’s odds in the
next match gave you a weighted coin to flip in the Brazilian stock market.
In late October of 2016— to take another example— global stock markets
were moving around noticeably in response to any news that seemed to
alter Donald Trump’s chances of becoming president. At that moment, the
upcoming election seemed as if it might be the most consequential election
for global financial markets in modern times. The traders on Jane Street’s
international ETF desk kicked around ideas about how to trade it. And
someone pointed out just how slowly, by high- frequency trading standards,
election results found their way into financial markets.
Sam took the lead on this particular research project. There was no
standardized national system for reporting the vote in a US presidential
election. Fifty states decided how and when to release their election data.
Some states moved more slowly than others. Some states had decent
websites to aggregate totals; others didn’t. “Most states had like seventeen
different websites,” said Sam. Even if the states were somehow maximally
efficient in their data collection, it seemed likely there was a lag before the
results reached the financial markets. “At Jane Street almost everyone had
the same intuition,” said Sam. “That it would be surprising if you couldn’t
do this.”
That is, it would be surprising if Jane Street couldn’t learn the results of
the presidential election before anyone else in the financial markets or for
that matter the entire world. After all, the financial markets still learned
whatever had happened the same way the general public did, by watching
John King on CNN. John King wasn’t built to maximize the returns for


--- PAGE 81 ---

high- frequency traders. “They had commercials so John King couldn’t be
worried about a two- minute delay,” said Sam. “Plus it took him fifteen
seconds to walk across the room to his map.” The Jane Street traders had
grown so accustomed to acquiring information faster than others in
financial markets that they just assumed they could do it in political
markets, too.
In short order they’d built a model— similar to those used by the news
networks and the FiveThirtyEight political forecasting website— to make
sense of the information they were about to gather faster than anyone else.
Sam recruited young traders from other desks to make themselves expert on
local voting data. To each state, he assigned a Jane Street trader to locate the
fastest source of election data. One trader took Michigan; another, Florida.
And so on. Getting the voting data more quickly than everyone else, Sam
and his fellow Jane Street traders assumed, was the hard part. The smart
trading strategy seemed so obvious that they didn’t give it nearly as much
thought. In the weeks leading up to the election, there had been a pattern:
stock markets everywhere tanked on good news for Trump, and rose on
good news for Clinton. Good news for Trump had proven to be bad news
especially in emerging markets, like Mexico. The Jane Street trading plan
wasn’t all that complicated. They’d get the voting results before everyone
else, that data would shift the odds of the election in one direction or the
other, and they’d buy or sell both US and emerging market stocks in
response.
On the night of November 8, 2016, the machine Sam designed and
supervised worked beautifully. The Jane Street traders were indeed able to
get a jump on CNN, sometimes by seconds, usually by minutes, and
occasionally by hours. “Trump up!” one Jane Street trader would shout, and
some other Jane Street trader would sell stocks. Five minutes later John
King would confirm the fact, and the market would move.


--- PAGE 82 ---

As the evening wore on, Jane Street’s worries that other high- frequency
trading firms might be doing the same trade eased. “Markets were moving
at the speed of CNN, not the speed of data,” said Sam. “We were confident
we had better info than the market. We had a sense that if anyone else was
doing this, they were very small.” Seven times that evening voting results
arrived that swung the odds by as much as 5 percent in one direction or the
other, and seven times Jane Street was ahead of the market move. The
results from the Florida Panhandle were the most dramatic. After the early
votes were counted, it appeared that Clinton had won Florida— and thus
probably the election. Florida was so impor tant, and the Panhandle went so
powerfully for Trump, that in Jane Street’s model it swung his odds of
winning the presidency from 5 percent to 60 percent. “We saw the Florida
Panhandle before John King saw it,” said Sam. “We even had time to freak
out, to think there must be a typo, to see that there wasn’t a typo and say,
Fuck it, let’s sell!”
By the time they’d finished, Jane Street had placed a bet of several
billion dollars against the S&P 500 and another quarter of a billion or so
against the stock markets of other countries, especially Mexico, whose
economies were most likely to be damaged by a Trump presidency. Around
one in the morning, after twenty- four thrilling hours without a break, Sam
left the trading desk to get some sleep. The markets seemed to have fully
digested the news of Trump’s victory. Jane Street was sitting on maybe the
single most profitable trade it had ever done. “It was the most exhilarating
day I ever had at Jane Street,” Sam said.
Three hours later he returned to find that the markets had changed their
minds about the likely effects of Donald Trump on the world’s stock
markets. “It was supposed to be Armageddon,” said Sam. “And maybe it
was. But it wasn’t Armageddon for US markets.” Markets in the United
States actually had rallied, and most of the Jane Street bet was against the


--- PAGE 83 ---

US stock market. “What had been a three- hundred- million- dollar profit for
Jane Street was now a three- hundred- million- dollar loss,” said Sam. “It
went from single most profitable to single worst trade in Jane Street
history.” Plus Donald Trump was now president of the United States, a fact
that did not please Sam or anyone else he knew at Jane Street. “The
universe was a cruel joke,” he said.
He was struck by what Jane Street did next: not much. There was no big
firm- wide formal postmortem. No one was punished, or even questioned.
On the one hand, Sam admired the way the firm distinguished process from
outcome. A bad outcome, in and of itself, did not suggest anyone had done
anything wrong, any more than a good outcome suggested anyone had done
anything right. “Jane Street really didn’t like blaming people,” said Sam.
“They sort of asked, ‘Did anyone do anything contrary to what they were
being told?’ When the answer was no, they said it could just as easily have
been the CEO who did it.”
On the other hand, this opaque and secretive trading firm had been in
possession of the results, before anyone else in the world, of maybe the
most consequential presidential election in modern times, and they had lost
a fortune. In retrospect, they had spent too much time getting their
information and not enough time thinking about how to use it. They’d just
assumed that a Trump victory was a global financial disaster. In retrospect,
the trade they should have done was obvious (in retrospect it always was):
bet on the damage to small foreign markets being greater than the damage
to US markets. They should have bought the S&P 500 and sold bigger
amounts of, say, the Mexican stock market. “There was an extremely good
trade in it that we fucked up,” said Sam. “I thought the postmortem should
be we almost nailed this. Everything we put a lot of thought into we did
quite well.”


--- PAGE 84 ---

Instead of trying to figure out how they might do such a trade better the
next time, Jane Street’s bosses decided they’d made a mistake by trying to
do such a trade at all. “It was, We have no intuition for this, and we’re not
going to do it, and we’re going to all not talk about trading on elections for
a while until this isn’t seared into our memory.” This bothered Sam. It made
him wonder if Jane Street was indeed set up to maximize its expected value.
It was striking how few people left Jane Street for other Wall Street firms,
or really for anything else. “When a sort of senior person left to go to a
competitor, there was a crying and drinking session because it was so
traumatic,” said Sam. The firm enticed young people who at any other time
in human history were unlikely to have found their way to Wall Street and
kept them sufficiently interested and engaged and well paid that they
couldn’t imagine doing anything else with their lives except trade for Jane
Street. They turned math people into money people without any obvious
loss in human happiness. Even the employees who weren’t all that good at
their jobs were kept on and made to feel a part of things. “Jane Street never
fired people,” said Sam. “It was cheaper to pay them to do nothing than to
allow them to take trades to a competitor.”
The firm had bent over backward to make Sam happy. They’d
interviewed the two closest friends Sam had made at MIT and hired one of
them. They even hired Sam’s younger brother, Gabe, who had just started
on the Jane Street trading floor. They’d allowed Sam to play a central role
in cooking up and pulling off a trade on the 2016 presidential election that
had lost the firm more money than any single trade in its history without
anyone saying even a mean word to him. In his annual reviews, his bosses
let him know that they had him ranked at the top of his Jane Street class. He
wasn’t the firm’s most profitable trader, but he was still young, and doing
very well. They’d paid him $300,000 after his first year, $600,000 after his


--- PAGE 85 ---

second year, and, after his third year, when he was twenty- five years old,
were about to hand him a bonus of $1 million. In his reviews, Sam pressed
his bosses to paint a picture of his financial future at Jane Street. It would
depend, of course, on Jane Street’s overall performance, they said, but ten
years in, if he kept on doing as well as he had been doing, he’d be making
somewhere between $15 million and $75 million a year. “Jane Street’s idea
was to make people so happy they wouldn’t leave,” said one former trader.
And yet Sam was not happy. His unhappiness was not a simple matter; he
was unhappy in so many ways that it would have helped him to create new
words for the emotion, the way the Inuit supposedly create all sorts of
words for ice. Every now and then, usually while he was taking a shower,
Sam’s thoughts about himself and his situation would coalesce, and he
would write them down. The tone of these private writings, in which he was
in effect presenting himself to himself, were wildly different from the tone
in which he presented himself to others. “I don’t feel pleasure,” he wrote
one day, late in his Jane Street career. “I don’t feel happiness. Somehow my
reward system never clicked. My highest highs, my proudest moments,
come and pass and I feel nothing but the aching hole in my brain where
happiness should be.” He knew he should feel grateful to Jane Street for
finding value in him that no one else had, but he also knew that he didn’t.
“To truly be thankful, you have to have felt it in your heart, in your
stomach, in your head— the rush of pleasure, of kinship, of gratitude,” he
wrote. “And I don’t feel those things. But I don’t feel anything, or at least
anything good. I don’t feel pleasure, or love, or pride, or devotion. I feel the
awkwardness of the moment enclosing on me. The pressure to react
appropriately, to show that I love them back. And I don’t, because I can’t.”
Jane Street was the only institution Sam had ever had anything to do with
that he did not feel at some level disapproving of. He was surrounded all
day by hundreds of people joined by a common purpose, playing the best


--- PAGE 86 ---

board game ever invented. And yet he still felt cut off from other people.
He’d learned to simulate responses to whatever other people had just done
or said, so that they might read him better. All he’d really done was create a
better mask, one that perhaps made it even more difficult for others to know
whatever was actually going on behind it. “I enjoy my co- workers,” he
wrote, “but they show no interest in seeing who I really am, in hearing the
thoughts I hold back. The more honest I try to make our friendships, the
more they fade away. No one is curious. No one cares, not really, about the
self I see. They care about the Sam they see, and what he means to them.
And they don’t seem to understand who that Sam is— a product of thoughts
that I decide people should hear. My real- life twitter account.”
He thought of himself as a thinking machine rather than a feeling one. He
thought of himself as a person who thought his way to action. About this,
he wasn’t completely wrong. The big changes he made in his life tended to
come after some other person had made an argument to him that he couldn’t
refute. Days after his arrival at MIT, for example, he’d met another
freshman, Adam Yedidia— the friend whom Jane Street eventually hired.
They’d fallen into a conversation about utilitarianism. Sam argued that it
was life’s only sensible philosophy, and that the main reason people didn’t
see this was a fear of where it would lead them. (“What scares people most
about utilitarianism is that it encourages selflessness.”) Adam had listened
to Sam go on about his beliefs until he finally said, If you really believed all
that, you wouldn’t eat meat. At little cost to yourself you reduce a lot of
suffering. Sam was serious about minimizing suffering. Sam also liked his
fried chicken— but that wasn’t really an argument. “Whatever he said had
been rattling around in my head, but I had been avoiding it because of a
thought I did not want to have,” said Sam. “The thought was: I spend thirty
minutes enjoying chicken and the chicken endures five weeks of torture.”
There was nothing to do but overhaul his diet, and he did. “There are easy


--- PAGE 87 ---

vegetarians and there are hard ones, and he was a hard one,” said Adam.
“It’s unusual to change something like that when it’s difficult.”
A similar thing had happened to Sam when he’d met Will MacAskill.
The Oxford philosopher’s argument struck Sam as simply right. He’d long
ago already decided that a person should judge his life by its consequences.
MacAskill had made those consequences both dramatic and quantifiable: he
should maximize the number of lives he saved. Sam had bought in,
instantly. “It was very fast and matter of fact,” said Sam. “What he said sort
of seemed obviously right to me. It gave me a practical course of action:
There are actual things to do. I can do this. There are people that do this.”
Three years into his career at Jane Street, he remained fully committed to
generating as many dollars as possible and channeling them into the causes
that saved lives most efficiently. He’d given away most of the money he’d
made on the trading floor to three charities identified by the Oxford
philosophers as being especially efficient at saving lives. (Two of those
charities, 80,000 Hours and the Centre for Effective Altruism, the Oxford
philosophers had started themselves. The third was the Humane League.)
And yet somehow Sam had committed his life to maximizing happiness
on earth without feeling any of his own. Between the summer of 2014,
when he started at Jane Street, and the summer of 2017, he’d taken no
vacation. He’d actually worked ten days when US markets were closed— ‐
the action in foreign markets was especially great when US traders weren’t
paying attention— and so on the Jane Street books he had taken negative
vacation days. On the trading floor, he’d found himself asking himself a
question: What is the likelihood that this job I stumbled into by accident
yields my highest value? He thought it implausible on the face of it. He’d
even made a list of things he might do other than trade for Jane Street: work
in politics, write journalism, sell other people on becoming effective
altruists, start some random tech company (even though I don’t have an


--- PAGE 88 ---

idea for one), set out to trade on my own. “There were like ten of these
things,” recalled Sam. “I tried to estimate the expected value of each, and
they were all very similar. A choice between Jane Street and any of them
was a close call, but a choice between Jane Street and all of them is not. I
was asking, What is the likelihood that Jane Street is the best option? Low.
But it was pretty clear that I wasn’t going to figure it out at Jane Street. The
only way to figure it out was to fuck around and try some of these things.”
Late in the summer of 2017, he finally took a vacation. Once he was free
to experiment, it took him little time to see that one of the options on his list
was not like the others. In 2017, crypto currency had gone from being this
bizarre hobbyhorse in which he had zero interest to a semi-serious financial
market, entirely separate from other financial markets. That year alone, the
value of all crypto boomed, going from $15 billion to $760 billion. Jane
Street didn’t trade crypto. Neither, so far as Sam could see, did any of the
other high- frequency trading firms. Jane Street was so skittish about crypto
that it wouldn’t even allow its traders to trade it in their personal accounts.
(Sam had asked.) Yet each day roughly a billion dollars’ worth of crypto
traded, in such primitive fashion that you’d have thought high- frequency
trading had never been invented.
Sam did a back- of- the- envelope calculation: if he could capture 5 percent
of the entire market (a modest number, by Jane Street standards), he could
make a million dollars a day or more. As the market never closed, that
meant profits of $365 million a year or more. “That was my ballpark
estimate,” he said. “It seemed crazy. So I just cut it by a factor of ten. I was
thinking thirty million a year. But I felt embarrassed showing that number
to anyone else. They’d say, ‘Fuck off, Sam.’ ”
He didn’t feel all that embarrassed, however. Before he returned to Jane
Street to quit his job, he spoke to his college friend who had provoked him
into giving up meat. “Sam was unlike anyone else, in that when he stated


--- PAGE 89 ---

his opinion he did it with exactly his level of confidence, which is often
very high,” recalled Adam Yedidia. “Before he left Jane Street, he said with
a high level of confidence, ‘I could make a billion dollars.’ And I said,
‘You’re not going to make a billion dollars.’ ”
‡ Which told you something about Jane Street. In 2104, the year Sam joined Jane Street, Virtu
Financial applied to the US Securities and Exchange Commission to sell shares to the public. Its
prospectus revealed that in 1,238 days of trading, it had had exactly one losing day. It had just ended
a year in which it had made money trading in the stock market every day. How does any firm do
that? the reader might intelligently wonder. The answer is outside the scope of this story but is partly
addressed in a book I wrote in 2014, called Flash Boys. The point here is that while the high- ‐
frequency trading firms appeared interchangeable from a certain distance— their trading was
automated, they all acted as intermediaries in financial markets— they differed in how they made
their money. Firms like Virtu and Citadel paid US stock exchanges for speed advantages that enabled
them to trade against others in the market with very little risk, which explained why they never lost
money. They ended each trading day without any positions in the market. Their skill, such as it was,
was to create a faster picture of the stock market for themselves than others were able to— which was
why, when they went looking for young talent, they wanted computer programmers who could speed
their machines more than traders who could make risk decisions. Jane Street had never gotten
seriously into the US stock market speed games, and perhaps regretted it. Its relative strength had
always been in arguably fairer markets, where they couldn’t simply buy the advantages offered to
high- frequency traders by, say, the New York Stock Exchange. If firms like Virtu and Citadel were
playing a speed game, firms like Jane Street were playing a brain game.
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 90 ---

ACT II
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 91 ---

I
5
HOW TO THINK ABOUT BOB
t took only a couple of weeks of working for Sam before Caroline Ellison
called her mother and sobbed into the phone that she’d just made the
biggest mistake of her life. She’d first met Sam at Jane Street, in the
summer before her senior year at Stanford, after he’d been assigned to teach
her class of interns how to trade. “I was kind of, like, terrified of him,” she
said. Like Sam, she was the child of academics— her father, Glenn Ellison,
had been the head of MIT’s Department of Economics. Like Sam, she was
someone for whom math had played an important role early on— she’d first
heard of Jane Street from the math competitions that the firm sponsored to
meet young people just like her. Like Sam, she had discovered effective
altruism in college, and found in it an intellectually coherent sense of
purpose. Maybe even more than Sam, she had allowed math to pull her to a
moral place. “I was attracted to people thinking about what to do in a
quantitative, rigorous way,” she said. “Before that, I don’t think I had much
of an impulse to do good in the world.”
And like Sam, she’d been hired by Jane Street as a full- time trader. But
unlike Sam, she was unsure of herself and susceptible to being swayed by


--- PAGE 92 ---

the opinions of others, especially men with whom she was involved. Unlike
Sam, she wanted a normal life, with emotions and children and maybe even
a sport utility vehicle in which to drive them around. After a year at Jane
Street, she sensed that she was at best average at her job and in any case
didn’t have anything like Sam’s feeling for the place, or share his fanaticism
about work. “I did feel a bit, like, unsatisfied,” she said. “There was
something missing. I wasn’t sure I was doing that much good.” At the same
time, she’d formed an unsettling attachment, at once full of promise and
absent of hope, to another Jane Street trader, Eric Mannes. “Looking back
on my relationship with Eric Mannes really makes me cringe,” she wrote
later, in an attempt to explain her emotional journey, which, because she
was writing to Sam’s attention span, she reduced to bullet points:
he told me that he would probably never love me
this made me feel really sad and really bad about myself
I didn’t want him to know how bad it made me feel, since I was worried it would
cause him to break up with me
so instead I hid my feelings and tried to act cheerful and chill about everything
I tried to avoid talking or thinking about things that made me feel bad
eg hearing about his exes made me feel jealous and insecure, so I never asked about
them
“With Eric I had a feeling that if he really knew me deeply, he wouldn’t
want to be with me, and thus I needed to hide myself,” she added.
In the fall of 2017, she’d been sent by Jane Street back to Stanford, to
recruit to high- frequency trading the mathematically gifted friends she’d
left behind. Upon arrival she’d called Sam and asked him to meet. Over
coffee in Berkeley,§ Sam was cagey about what he was up to. “It was, ‘I’m
working on something secret and I can’t talk about it,’ ” recalled Caroline.
“He was worried about recruiting from Jane Street. But after we talked a
while, he said, ‘I guess maybe I could tell you.’ ” By the end of their chat,


--- PAGE 93 ---

Caroline thought that maybe she should quit Jane Street and join the crypto
trading firm Sam was secretly building. The work felt familiar: she’d be
doing the same sort of research in crypto for Sam’s new quant fund that she
was doing in equities for Jane Street. Asking questions like: Does the price
of bitcoin vary significantly with time of day? Or: How does the price of
bitcoin move in relation to the prices of all the other coins? But the
underlying purpose of the work would be entirely different, because she
would be doing it only with other effective altruists. Jane Street, as Sam put
it, was “just a place where people come to work each day to play some
games and increase the number in their bank account, because what the
fuck else are they going to do with their lives?” Alameda Research, as he
was calling the new firm, was going to be different: a vessel to save some
vast number of lives.
Caroline told Sam that she’d need to think about it. Thinking about it
meant returning to Jane Street and asking Eric Mannes one final time if he
loved her. As it turned out, Eric Mannes did not love her— which, though
sad in its way, freed up Caroline to quit Jane Street and join Alameda
Research.
Quitting Jane Street wasn’t as painless as Caroline thought it would be.
First- year traders whom Jane Street had just paid $200,000 didn’t simply up
and quit— especially not to go work for a fly- by- night crypto trading start- ‐
up. Caroline sensed, rightly, that her departure alerted Jane Street to an
alarming new threat. Jane Street and the other high- frequency trading firms
had been fishing for traders in the same ponds as Will MacAskill and the
other Oxford philosophers fished for effective altruists. People able to
calculate the expected value of complicated financial gambles were the
same people drawn to the belief that they could calculate the expected value
of their entire lives. By Wall Street standards, Jane Street was not a greedy
place. Its principals did not flaunt their wealth in the way that the guys who


--- PAGE 94 ---

had founded other high- frequency trading firms loved to do. They didn’t
buy pro sports teams or hurl money at Ivy League schools to get buildings
named for themselves. They were not opposed to saving a few lives. But
Jane Street was still on Wall Street. To survive, it needed its employees to
grow attached to their annual bonuses, and accustomed to their five- ‐
bedroom Manhattan apartments and quiet, understated summer houses in
the Hamptons.
The flood of effective altruists into the firm was worrisome. These people
arrived with their own value system. They had their own deep loyalties to
something other than Jane Street. They didn’t have the usual Wall Street
person’s relationship to money; they didn’t care about their bonuses in the
ways Wall Street people were supposed to care. Sam Bankman- Fried had
been able to leave his lucrative Jane Street job for a nutso plan to try to
make even more money on his own because he had no material
attachments. “It wasn’t going to cut into his lifestyle, because he didn’t
have a lifestyle,” as one former Jane Street trader put it.
Caroline was the second effective altruist to quit Jane Street’s New York
office in a matter of months, by telling them, on her way out the door, that
she was leaving to maximize her expected value. This time they were ready
for it. Her manager, a Jane Street partner, pulled her into his office. “He was
pissed off,” she said. “Just cold.” He then proceeded to challenge her
deepest beliefs. Effective altruism made no sense, he said, then laid out the
many senseless things about it: there was no accurate way to measure the
consequences in the distant future of your present actions; if such
measurement did exist, it would likely be done best by the market; no one
would pay you as much as Jane Street paid you, ergo, your highest value
was at Jane Street. And so on. This was a first: a Wall Street trading firm
whose business was premised on its ability to hire the brightest
mathematical minds was now compelled to make arguments about the


--- PAGE 95 ---

limits of math in life. “It was this hour- long conversation with the partner
where he tried to convince me to stay because utilitarianism was flawed,”
recalled Caroline. “I thought, This isn’t something we’re going to solve in
an hour.”
She was surprised by the Jane Street partner’s lack of sentiment after his
argument hadn’t landed as he imagined it might. “Once he saw I wasn’t
going to change my mind about utilitarianism, my stuff is in a box,” she
said. No one on the trading floor offered her so much as a hug. With her
box of stuff, Caroline Ellison walked out onto the streets of lower
Manhattan. Once there and on her own, her first thought was: God, I’ve
made a huge mistake.
But the thought passed. And in March of 2018 she moved to the Bay
Area and took some time for herself before reporting to her new job. On her
blog she described her feelings of liberation.
me after living in the Bay Area for a week: monogamy is hopeless and dying. might as well be a
plate for alpha guys while I’m still young/hot enough and freeze my eggs for later
In late March she started the job. The situation inside Alameda Research
wasn’t anything like Sam had led her to expect. He’d recruited twenty or so
EAs, most of them in their twenties, all but one without experience trading
in financial markets. Most neither knew nor cared about crypto; they had
just bought into Sam’s argument that it was this insanely inefficient market
in which they might use his Jane Street– like approach to trading to extract
billions. They were now all living in Sam’s world, and they weren’t hiding
their unhappiness. “He was demanding and expecting everyone to work
eighteen- hour days and give up anything like a normal life, while he would
not show up for meetings, not shower for weeks, have a mess all around
him with old food everywhere, and fall asleep at his desk,” said Tara Mac
Aulay, a young Australian mathematician who was, in theory, running the


--- PAGE 96 ---

company with Sam. “He did zero management and thought that if people
had any questions, they should just ask him. Then in his one- on- ones with
people, he’d play video games.”
The firm’s finances were already in a state of chaos. They’d started small
a few months before, with the half million left over after taxes from Sam’s
Jane Street bonus, but within a few months they’d persuaded other, richer
effective altruists to lend them $170 million to trade crypto. They’d lost
millions of it already, though how many millions no one could say for sure.
In February their trading system had lost half a million dollars per day. On
top of the trading losses, some additional millions had simply vanished. No
one seemed to know where the money had gone— but the employees were
in full panic mode. “It’s not that virtually the entire management team
wanted to leave,” said Ben West, one of its five members. “The entire
management team wanted to leave.” The four others held a series of
increasingly tense meetings with Sam. In the first of these, Ben asked Sam
what his ideal role was in the company. “He says that it was being the nerve
center— the spider in the center of the web,” recalled Ben. “That people
would come to him with ideas and he would decide if they were good or
not.” Sam saw his job as listening to what others had to say, and yet the
members of the management team, along with pretty much everyone else in
the new company, felt that he wouldn’t listen to a word they said.
Amid the turmoil, Sam inhabited what amounted to his own reality. His
attitude toward the missing money was, Eh, it’ll probably turn up
somewhere. So let’s fucking trade! His first stab at an automated trading
system was losing money at an alarming clip, but he’d created another,
supposedly better one. Modelbot, it was called. Modelbot had been
programmed to scour the world’s crypto exchanges for inefficiencies to
exploit. If for even a few seconds it was possible to buy bitcoin on some
Singaporean exchange for $7,900 and sell it for $7,920 on an exchange in


--- PAGE 97 ---

Japan, Modelbot would do it over and over again, thousands of times per
second. But that example made Modelbot sound simpler than it was.
Modelbot was programmed to trade roughly five hundred different crypto
coins on thirty or so different crypto exchanges, most of them in Asia, all of
them basically unregulated. The tulip- bulb- like explosion in crypto over the
previous year had encouraged the creation of hundreds of new coins.
Modelbot made no distinction between the better- known coins with deep
markets, like bitcoin and ether, the Ethereum blockchain’s token, and the
so- called shitcoins that hardly traded at all, like Sexcoin and PUTinCoin
and Hot Potato Coin.¶ Modelbot just hunted for any coin it could buy at one
price in one place and sell in another at a higher price.
Modelbot was maybe the biggest point of disagreement between Sam and
his management team. Sam’s Release- the- Kraken fantasy was to hit a
button and let Modelbot burn and churn through crypto markets twenty- four
hours a day, seven days a week. He had not been able to let Modelbot rip
the way he’d liked— because just about every other human being inside
Alameda Research was doing whatever they could to stop him. “It was
entirely within the realm of possibility that we could lose all our money in
an hour,” said one. One hundred seventy million dollars that might
otherwise go to effective altruism could simply go poof. That thought
terrified the other four effective altruists in charge of Alameda Research.
One evening, Tara argued heatedly with Sam until he caved and agreed to
what she thought was a reasonable compromise: he could turn on Modelbot
so long as he and at least one other person were present to watch it, but
should turn it off if it started losing money. “I said, ‘Okay, I’m going home
to go to sleep,’ and as soon as I left, Sam turned it on and fell asleep,”
recalled Tara. From that moment the entire management team gave up on
ever trusting Sam.


--- PAGE 98 ---

Once she’d started, Caroline heard the gory details from Sam’s
disaffected partners. “They told me, ‘You should know for your own good
that there are problems here,’ ” she later recalled. At the end of Caroline’s
second week, they called a meeting to announce that they had persuaded the
rich effective altruists who had lent them the $170 million to demand its
return— which meant that in a few weeks Alameda Research would have no
money to trade with. Caroline did not know whom to believe. She felt
deceived that Sam had not warned her of how poorly Alameda Research
was doing before she quit her job at Jane Street. And yet she didn’t know
any of these other people. She thought she knew Sam, but she also thought
that if the entire management was talking about quitting in protest, and the
investors were taking their money back, someone must know things about
Sam that she did not. It was at this point that Caroline called her mother and
cried.
The business hadn’t even really been Sam’s idea but Tara’s. Tara had been
running the Centre for Effective Altruism, in Berkeley, and Sam, while at
Jane Street, had become one of her biggest donors. Through the spring and
summer of 2017, the two of them were on the phone constantly. At some
point Sam revealed his romantic interest in her; at some other point Tara
revealed that she was trading crypto in her personal account. Tara was no
one’s idea of a crypto trader— before moving to run the Centre for Effective
Altruism, she’d modeled pharmaceutical demand for the Red Cross. She
had no financial background and no money to speak of and yet was
generating tens of thousands in profits trading crypto. The more Sam spoke
with Tara, the more his interest drifted from her romantic appeal to her
trading skills. Tara wasn’t just buying bitcoin and watching it rise. She was
exploiting the same sorts of inefficiencies in the market for cryptocurrencies


--- PAGE 99 ---

that, to exploit in other financial markets, required Jane Street– level talent
and speed and expertise.
Sam wrote her a check for $50,000 and sent it to her, no strings attached,
so she might increase the size of her bets. She never cashed it. The money
made her uneasy— and not because it had come from Sam. “I kept saying,
‘What if I just got really lucky?’ ” recalled Tara. Sam finally put her mind
to rest with some math that showed how statistically improbable it was that
her rate of success was just luck. Tara’s trades were sort of like the trades
Jane Street did on everything else, bets on the relative values of different
crypto coins. Her success led Sam to his secret belief that he might make a
billion dollars by creating a hedge fund to trade crypto the way Jane Street
traded everything.
But he couldn’t do it by himself. Crypto trading never closed. Just to
have two people awake twenty- four hours a day, seven days a week, he’d
need to hire at least five other traders. He’d also need programmers to turn
the traders’ insights into code, so that their trading could be automated and
speeded up. Tara had been making a handful of trades a week on her laptop;
what Sam had in mind was an army of bots making a million trades a day.
He’d need to hire some lower- IQ people to do the boring stuff, like finding
office space and getting food for the traders and paying utility bills and
probably lots of other things he hadn’t thought of.
His access to a pool of willing effective altruists was his secret weapon.
Sam knew next to nothing about crypto, but he did know how easy it was to
steal it. Anyone who started a crypto trading firm would need to trust his
employees deeply, as any employee could hit a button and wire the crypto
to a personal account without anyone else ever having the first idea what
had happened. Wall Street firms were not capable of generating that level of
trust, but EA was.


--- PAGE 100 ---

Up to that point in his life, Sam hadn’t led much of anything or even been
vaguely responsible for other people. He’d managed puzzle hunts out of his
parents’ home in high school. He’d spent a year as “Commander” of a
twenty- five- person living group at MIT. It crossed his mind, now that he
was starting his own business, that he should read up on how to manage
people. But every time he flipped through books or articles on management
or leadership, he had roughly the same reaction he’d had to English class.
One expert said X, the other said the opposite of X. “It was all bullshit,” he
said.
On the other hand, he had a nose for talent. His judgment of other people
was always far more acute than their judgment of him. His first call, made
even before he left Jane Street, was to Gary Wang. Sam had met Gary at
math camp in high school but hadn’t really gotten to know him until
college. Born in China but raised mainly in the United States, he was a year
behind Sam at MIT and had lived in the same nerd house. Even there he
stood out: among shy, socially awkward introverts, Gary was always the
most shy, the most socially awkward, and the most introverted. He had this
clear, untroubled face and the smile of an angel but . . . no words. People
who worked side by side with him for months would come away convinced
that he simply didn’t speak. Some found his silences rude, but they were
mistaken. They were inevitable. In response to the attempts of others to
engage him, the best he could manage was an apologetic smile. Otherwise,
he kept his back to the world and his eyes fixed on his computer screen.
With Sam for some reason he made an exception. Sam had watched Gary
win coding competitions at MIT and listened to people who knew a lot
more about coding than he did talk about Gary’s coding genius. Sam had
also played board games with Gary, endlessly. Board games turned out to be
maybe the only way to get to know Gary. “I ultimately saw him for what he
was and didn’t just dismiss him, and a lot of people did just dismiss him,”


--- PAGE 101 ---

said Sam. “Despite being very quiet, he seemed not terribly scared of the
world. He was very smart. He was good at games, so he could work on
things that were not super literal.”
After a while, when it was just the two of them, Gary spoke to Sam.
Whatever had come out of Gary’s mouth had impressed Sam enough that
he’d tried to get Jane Street to hire him. Gary had flubbed the interviews,
however, by not speaking. Following graduation from MIT, he’d stayed in
Boston, working as a programmer for Google Flights. During his final
weeks at Jane Street, Sam traveled to Boston just to tell Gary about his plan
to make a billion dollars trading crypto for effective altruistic causes. (Sam
had converted Gary to effective altruism.) “He was bored as shit at Google
Flights,” said Sam. “After a few hours he says he’s probably in.” Sam then
called Tara and told her that he’d found their chief technology officer, and
that she needed to talk to Gary. Tara called Gary and . . . well, it was a
strange experience. It was tricky getting through a phone call with someone
who didn’t speak. Tara told Sam as much, and Sam said, You’re just, like,
missing something. Wait until you meet him in person.
That happened in October 2017, when Sam and Tara and Gary gathered
in a house in Berkeley and used Sam’s Jane Street bonus to make their first
trades— with Sam doing all the talking. By then word was spreading
through the growing community of effective altruists of this strange new
adventure in altruistic moneymaking. All sorts of people with no experience
of trading, and no particular interest in money, began to turn up and offer
their services. Among the first was another person who would wind up with
a central role in Sam’s world: Nishad Singh.
Nishad was twenty- one years old and newly graduated from the
University of California at Berkeley. He was also Sam’s younger brother’s
best friend from high school. As classmates at Crystal Springs Uplands,
Gabe and Nishad had gone vegan together, and then, in college, they had


--- PAGE 102 ---

become effective altruists. After college, Nishad had taken the EA path sold
far and wide by Will MacAskill and found the highest- paying job he could,
so that he might donate his earnings to causes that saved lives. He’d been
on a starting salary of $300,000 a year at Facebook when, after only five
months, he’d lost his stomach for the work. “There was just some truly
retarded stuff,” he said. Word reached him that Sam Bankman- Fried had
quit Jane Street to generate even more money for effective altruism, and
Nishad was all ears. He called Sam and asked what he was doing. “I show
up at their apartment,” recalled Nishad. “It’s just Sam and Gary and Tara.
They show me this thing. Sam was like, Watch me make these trades. He
makes a few clicks and says, I just made forty thousand dollars. I was like,
‘Holy shit! This is real?’ ”
Like Gary, Nishad was the child of immigrants. His parents had come to
Silicon Valley from India with little, turned themselves into upper- middle- ‐
class Americans, and never stopped charging forward. It bothered Nishad
when they went back to India on a visit and ignored the people starving on
the side of the road, and he let them know it. It bothered Nishad even more
when he learned how animals were treated on their way to becoming his
family’s dinner, and he let them know that, too. “You’re not jaded as a kid.
You can feel how horrific it is. There’s not much you can control as a kid,
but I could control this.” By high school he was reading Peter Singer and on
a moral journey that his parents regarded as faintly ridiculous. “My parents’
attitude was, No one cares about this stuff; that must mean there is nothing
to care about. The truth is, I stopped talking about it, because they’d just
leave the dinner table.” They’d been especially bewildered by their son’s
turn toward effective altruism in college. “They thought giving away things
is insane,” said Nishad.
Maybe for this reason, Gabe’s parents, Joe and Barbara, had become
important to Nishad. “They were the first grown- ups who took me


--- PAGE 103 ---

seriously,” he said. “And it made me take myself seriously.” Gabe’s older
brother, on the other hand, might as well have not existed. In high school,
Sam didn’t seem to have much to do with Gabe or anyone else; he seldom
even emerged from his bedroom. “I just thought of Sam as a reclusive
genius,” said Nishad. “It’s like he doesn’t belong in childhood.”
Face- to- face as a young adult with the reclusive genius, Nishad now had
some questions. The first was: How the hell did the crypto market let you
just take forty thousand dollars out of it? Sam explained how Jane Street
made money, and added that the crypto markets were dominated by retail
traders who didn’t pay much attention to price discrepancies from one
crypto exchange to the next. To which Nishad responded: Why is it not the
case that Jane Street or some other high- frequency trading firm will come
along and take over the crypto markets? Sam explained that Jane Street— ‐
and likely others— were waking up to crypto, but that it would take them
months to ease their concerns that it wasn’t all one vast criminal enterprise.
I’m an engineer, Nishad said. I don’t even know the difference between a
stock and a bond: How could I possibly be of use? Don’t worry, said Sam, it
doesn’t matter that you’ve never traded. It’s just another engineering
problem, and once you acquire even a little knowledge, you’ll be able to
help code the trading system.
Then what are the risks? asked Nishad.
That we blow up, said Sam.
They didn’t blow up, not at first. Those first few weeks, they made no
real money, but then they had only a few people and Sam’s bonus money.
By the end of December, they’d hired a bunch of people and raised $25
million in capital. Gary, basically all by himself, had written the code for an
entire quantitative system. That month they generated several million
dollars in profits. In January 2018 their profits rose to half a million dollars
each day, on a capital base of $40 million— whereupon an effective altruist


--- PAGE 104 ---

named Jaan Tallinn, who’d made his fortune in Skype, handed them $130
million more to play with.
The trading from the start was chaotic. Much of the money they made in
their first two months came from just two trades. The frenzied demand for
bitcoin created weird distortions in global crypto markets. By December
2017, retail speculators in South Korea were driving bitcoin to prices 20
percent higher than they were on US exchanges, sometimes more. Anyone
who could find a way to sell crypto in South Korea and at the same time
buy it outside of South Korea could lock in vast profits. It wasn’t trivial to
do, however. To open a crypto account on a South Korean exchange, just
for starters, you needed to be South Korean. “We found a graduate student
friend in South Korea and traded in his name,” recalled Nishad, who now
saw why maybe it would take Jane Street a while to export radical
efficiency to crypto markets. Jane Street would smell legal trouble; Jane
Street would at the very least be embarrassed if it wound up as news in the
New York Times that they’d hired a South Korean grad student to front their
business. “It was borderline illegal, but in practice, who goes after you
when you do this?” said Nishad later. “No one.” This was the very
beginning of Nishad’s financial education: there were laws that, in theory,
governed money; and then there was what people actually did with money.
“That’s where I learned what the law is,” said Nishad. “The law is what
happens, not what is written.”
Pretending to be South Korean was the easy part. It was illegal for South
Koreans to sell more than ten grand worth of won without the permission of
the central bank. Even if you could find a South Korean grad student to
front your trades, you still had to find a way to turn won into dollars.
Otherwise, you ended up with a bunch of won in South Korea (from the
bitcoin you sold on the South Korean exchange) and a bunch of bitcoin
you’d bought on some US crypto exchange. You couldn’t complete the


--- PAGE 105 ---

trade. Ideally, all at once, you’d sell the bitcoin in South Korea for won,
then sell the won for dollars, use those dollars to buy the bitcoin (at a 20
percent discount) in the United Sates, and ship that bitcoin back to South
Korea, leaving you with no bitcoin and a 20 percent profit on the trade. But
the South Korean government wouldn’t let you sell the won.
It wasn’t Sam’s first thought, but he considered buying a jumbo jet and
flying it back and forth from Seoul, filled with South Koreans carrying
suitcases each holding $10,000 worth of won, to a small island off the coast
of Japan. “The problem is that it wasn’t scalable,” said Sam. “To make it
worthwhile, we needed like ten thousand South Koreans a day. And we
probably would have attracted so much attention doing it that we would
have been shut down. Once the South Korean central bank saw you with ten
thousand South Koreans carrying suitcases full of won they’d be like,
There’s going to be a new direction here.”
Still, he was tempted. There were moments when the price of bitcoin in
South Korea was 50 percent higher than the price of bitcoin in the United
States. At that point you didn’t even need currencies. All you needed was to
buy a huge amount of something with the won that you could then sell
outside of South Korea for a huge number of dollars. Briefly, Sam
considered creating an import- export company for Tylenol. Buy the pills
with won in South Korea, and sell them for dollars in the United States.
Sam and his fellow effective altruists had a dozen ideas like this before
they settled on Ripple. RippleNet was a platform created by some crypto
entrepreneurs back in 2012 that was making a pitch to play the useful role
in everyday financial life that Bitcoin had been meant to play. A big part of
the theoretical appeal of Ripple’s coin* was that, unlike bitcoin, which took
vast amounts of energy to maintain, it was carbon- neutral. Ripple’s actual
appeal was the same as Bitcoin’s: the price of its coin moved up and down a
lot, and so it was fun to gamble on. By late 2017, lots of people traded


--- PAGE 106 ---

Ripple on every major crypto exchange. On South Korean exchanges,
Ripple was trading at an even greater premium to Ripple on American
exchanges than South Korean bitcoin was to American bitcoin.
If a bitcoin cost 20 percent more in South Korea than it did in the US,
Ripple’s coin cost 25 percent more. Ripple offered a path to exploit the
insanity of the South Korean crypto markets: sell Ripple in South Korea,
use the won to buy bitcoin, ship the bitcoin to the US, where you could sell
it for dollars, and use the dollars to buy Ripple, which you could then send
back to South Korea. The bitcoin still cost 20 percent more in South Korea
than it did in the United States, but the 25 percent gains from Ripple’s
tokens more than paid for that. The 20 percent you might have made on
each trade shrank to 5 percent, but the profits were still outrageous, even by,
say, Jane Street standards. The only risk was the five to thirty seconds it
took to make the trades.
Or at least that’s how it seemed when Alameda first made the trade. Then
one day in February, someone— not Sam, who was frantically trading— ‐
noticed the missing Ripple. Four million dollars’ worth of it had vanished.
In fairness, it was not then clear whether it was gone forever. Sam and his
traders, using the system Gary had built, were making a quarter of a million
trades each day. So much Ripple and Bitcoin was flying around at any
given time that it was at least possible that any missing Ripple was simply
in transit. Sam suspected that the $4 million worth of Ripple had been sent
from the exchange in the United States (and debited from Alameda’s
account) and had arrived at the exchange in South Korea, but that the South
Korean exchange was just dragging its feet in crediting it to Alameda’s
account. The other members of the management team were unconvinced.
They insisted that Sam stop trading so that they could figure out where their
Ripple had gone.


--- PAGE 107 ---

At length Sam agreed. He stopped trading for two weeks. The other
members of the management team confirmed that millions of dollars’ worth
of Ripple was indeed missing. At which point everyone except Sam, and
perhaps Gary, became upset. “We thought we needed to tell investors and
tell employees so they could reconsider their options, but Sam hated that
idea,” said one of the firm’s managers. Sam continued to insist that the
missing Ripple was no big deal. He didn’t think anyone had stolen it. He
didn’t actually believe that it was lost, or that they should account for it as
lost. He told his fellow managers that in his estimation there was an 80
percent chance that it would eventually turn up. Thus they should count
themselves as still having 80 percent of it. To which one of his fellow
managers replied: After the fact, if we never get any of the Ripple back, no
one is going to say it is reasonable for us to have said we have eighty
percent of the Ripple. Everyone is just going to say we lied to them. We’ll be
accused by our investors of fraud.
That sort of argument just bugged the hell out of Sam. He hated the way
inherently probabilistic situations would be interpreted, after the fact, as
having been black- and- white, or good and bad, or right and wrong. So
much of what made his approach to life different from most people’s was
his willingness to assign probabilities and act on them, and his refusal to be
swayed by any after- the- fact illusion that the world had been more
knowable than it actually was. The missing Ripple reminded him of a
favorite thought experiment. “You have a close friend, Bob,” he explained.
“He’s great. You love him. Bob is at a house party where someone gets
murdered. No one knows who the murderer is. There are twenty people
there. None are criminals. But Bob is less likely in your mind than anyone
else to have killed someone. But you can’t say that there is a zero chance
Bob killed someone. Someone got killed, no one knows who did it. You
now think there’s like a one percent chance Bob did it. How do you see Bob


--- PAGE 108 ---

now? What is Bob to you? And there is no updating: there is no new
information about Bob.”
One answer was that you should never go near Bob again. There might
be a 99 percent chance that Bob is the saint you always thought him to be,
but if you’re wrong, you’re dead. Treating Bob’s character as a matter of
probability felt problematic. Bob was either a cold- blooded killer or he
wasn’t. Whatever probability you assigned before you found out the truth
about Bob would appear, after the fact, unfair and even absurd. “There
doesn’t exist a guess you can make that is overwhelmingly likely to be
roughly correct,” said Sam. “Bob is either completely blameless or far more
guilty.” And yet assigning a probability to Bob’s character was, in Sam’s
view, the only way to think about him, or indeed any uncertain situation.
“It’s not good enough to say, ‘Bob’s not the kind of guy I want to be
around.’ So what is the probability at which you say, ‘Okay, I’m going to
just stay away from Bob until this is resolved’?” said Sam. “It’s sort of
mind- bending. There is no way to deal with Bob right now that is just.”
Life’s uncertainties often made a mockery of a probabilistic approach, but
in Sam’s view there was really no other approach to take. “A lot of things
are like Bob,” said Sam. “I thought that the Ripple was like Bob. We’d
either get it back or not.”
By early April, the other executives at Alameda Research had ceased to be
interested in Sam’s thought experiments. “After the trading pause, I
expected Sam to update and he didn’t update,” said one. “Like, Hey, we
have a big problem. We don’t know where the money is. But we know we
don’t have as much as we thought we did.” They’d all wearied of Sam’s
stubborn unwillingness to manage anyone. They’d all grown to fear how
little he worried about where exactly their money was. They were making
two hundred fifty thousand trades a day and their system had somehow lost,


--- PAGE 109 ---

or failed to record, some large number of them. Among the many problems
their shoddy recordkeeping caused was the difficulty of filing an honest tax
return. “How are we going to pass an audit if we’re missing ten percent of
our transactions?” asked Tara. The missing Ripple was the final straw. “The
prospect of losing a couple of hundred million dollars that would have
otherwise gone into solving the world’s problems felt pretty high stakes,”
said Ben West. Under the circumstances, they thought it was insane to
continue trading, but Sam insisted on trading. Crypto markets would not
remain inefficient for long. They needed to make hay while the sun shone.
The sun unfortunately took that moment to hide behind the clouds. After
crypto prices tanked in February, the Asian frenzy subsided and the gaps in
crypto prices between Asian and US exchanges vanished. At the same time
the Ripple went missing, the trading profits turned into trading losses. In
January they’d made half a million dollars of profits a day trading $40
million in capital; in February, with four times as much capital, they’d lost
half a million dollars a day. Apart from a shared alarm at his recklessness,
the members of the management team were not perfectly unified in their
opinions of Sam. Tara had long since decided that he was dishonest and
manipulative. Ben still thought him well- intentioned— but terrible at his
job. But all felt themselves on a suicide mission. “I had a conversation with
Tara and Peter [McIntyre, another executive],” recalled Ben, “and we were
talking about how to help Sam and the conversation changed to: How do we
get rid of Sam?”
Like everything else about Alameda Research, this bid by the firm’s
other managers to get rid of Sam proved complicated. For a start, Sam
owned the entire company. He’d structured it so that no one else had equity,
only promises of equity down the road. In a tense meeting, the others
offered to buy him out, but at a fraction of what Sam thought the firm to be
worth, and the offer came with diabolical fine print: Sam would remain


--- PAGE 110 ---

liable for all taxes on any future Alameda profits. At least some of his
fellow effective altruists aimed to bankrupt Sam, almost as a service to
humanity, so that he might never be allowed to trade again. “He seemed to
feel very sorry for himself,” Ben wrote of Sam after the meeting. “I
reminded him that everyone else at the company has sacrificed a huge
amount.”
Enter Nishad. In his treatment of others, Nishad was almost painfully
considerate— the sort of person who, after he offers up an opinion, qualifies
it four different ways to make sure he hasn’t caused offense. He could see
merit in both sides of any argument. And, young as he was, he now drifted
into the uneasy role of human buffer between Sam and people who perhaps
did not fully understand Sam— basically everyone except Gary. “I think it
was because I prioritize the person over the work and Sam is exactly the
opposite of that,” said Nishad. “In spite of being emotionally inattentive,
I’m much more emotionally attentive than Sam.” Nishad would have been
the first to admit at that moment that he knew nothing about how to manage
people— especially people so fixated on their careers as tools for
maximizing the expected value of their lives. “I tried to think about how to
role- play a good manager,” he said. “I thought it would involve like maybe
a one- on- one meeting every week to check on their feelings, and giving
good feedback and some other things like that. And Sam didn’t meet any of
those criteria. People kept complaining about that thing where he is looking
at his computer while he’s talking to you and giving you half answers. And
he’s resistant to the idea that someone is going to tell him something he
doesn’t know.”
As the dispute between Sam and the other higher- ups turned ugly, Nishad
was dragged in to mediate. “I basically agreed that Sam was a very bad
manager. He was genuinely a terrible manager.” But while Sam was sullen
and withdrawn, the other members of the management team, in Nishad’s


--- PAGE 111 ---

view, were excessively outraged. “The conversations we had were
absolutely fucking nuts,” he recalled. “Like to what extent Sam should be
excommunicated for deceiving EAs and wasting EA talent. And like ‘the
only way Sam will learn is if he actually goes bankrupt.’ They told our
investors he was faking being an EA, because it was the meanest thing they
could think to say.” Ruining Sam wasn’t enough, however: they expected to
be paid on their way out the door. “They wanted severance, even though
they were quitting and it was a money- losing operation in which they didn’t
have a stake,” said Nishad. “They were saying that Sam needed to buy them
out and they were worth more than one hundred percent of the value of the
entire company because Sam was a net negative.”
It occurred to Nishad that the effective altruist’s relationship to money
was more than a little bizarre. Basically all of Alameda Research’s
employees and investors were committed to giving all their money away to
roughly the same charitable causes. You might surmise that they wouldn’t
much care who wound up with the money, as it all would go to saving the
lives of the same people none of them would ever meet. You would be
wrong: in their financial dealings with each other, the effective altruists
were more ruthless than Russian oligarchs. Their investors were charging
them a rate of interest of 50 percent. “It wasn’t a normal loan,” said Nishad.
“It was a shark loan.” In what was meant to be a collaborative enterprise,
Sam had refused to share any equity with anyone. And now all these
unprofitable effective altruists were demanding to be paid millions to quit
— and doing whatever they could to trash Sam’s reputation with the outside
world until they got their money. “It felt super weird,” said Nishad. “It felt
wild for money to be the object of our focus rather than something else. I
thought caring about money itself was morally bankrupt.”
In the end, for Sam to leave he had to want to leave, and Sam did not
really want to leave. And so, on April 9, 2018, his entire management team,


--- PAGE 112 ---

along with half of his employees, walked out the door, with somewhere
between one and two million dollars in severance. At that moment, the
outside investors were in the same uneasy position as Bob’s friend. They
heard two radically different stories about Sam, one from the management
team, the other from Sam. But as one put it, “There was no smoking gun.”
No one thing Sam had done for which they could easily condemn him. It
was, as Tara said, “one hundred small things.” The investors had no real
idea whom or what to believe, or even how to figure out whom or what to
believe. “There may be ways in which I shouldn’t trust Sam, but it felt
nuanced,” said one. They’d all made their money in start- ups; they all knew
that start- ups were chaotic. Now they had to decide: Was Sam a reckless,
phony effective altruist who was going to steal or lose all their money, or
were these other people simply unsuited to working in a start- up hedge
fund? It was one or the other, an either/or question, to which they responded
probabilistically. Just about all of them kept money invested in Alameda,
but just about all of them reduced the size of their investments. The capital
at Sam’s disposal plunged from $170 million to $40 million. He wouldn’t
be able to trade as much as he had before, but he could still trade.
The remaining employees were also in the position of Bob’s friend, in
that most of them didn’t understand what had happened. Sam had fully
absorbed the Jane Street management technique of letting the rank and file
see only their tiny piece of the puzzle, reserving for himself a view of the
whole. Gary, though unintentionally, had done something similar with the
computer code, which was indecipherable to everyone but him. “Gary was
the only person who understood how to code it, and Gary didn’t talk to
anyone,” said Nishad. The company was a bit of a black box to nearly
everyone still inside it. Nishad was briefly on the fence about staying but
decided that, as inept as Sam was with other human beings, and as little as
he understood what Gary had built, he’d rather throw in his lot with Sam


--- PAGE 113 ---

and Gary and see what happened. He’d do what he could to teach Sam
about other people’s feelings. “One thing I think would make people feel
heard in the one- on- ones,” he wrote to Sam, soon after half the company
had quit, “is if you asked about their emotional states in general and their
emotional takes.”
What happened next, in retrospect, seems faintly incredible. With no one
left to argue with him, Sam threw the switch and let Modelbot rip. “We
turned it on and it instantly started making us lots of money,” said Nishad.
And then they finally found the $4 million worth of missing Ripple. First
they figured out its travel itinerary: it had been sent from Kraken, a US
crypto exchange, to an exchange in South Korea called Bithumb. Then they
figured out that the computer languages used by the two exchanges were
not perfectly compatible. Bithumb was able to receive the Ripple from
Kraken but not the name of the person who owned the tokens. The South
Korean exchange had failed to detect the problem because it was specific to
Ripple’s coins— it occurred with no other cryptocurrency— and there had
only been one big player in the market shipping massive amounts of them
from Kraken to Bithumb. Inside Bithumb in South Korea, the employees
saw huge amounts of Ripple piling up without any indication of who it
belonged to. Once Sam figured out where the missing Ripple was meant to
be, he telephoned the Bithumb exchange directly. The call was transferred
around the company about three times before a voice finally came on the
line and said, “Are you the fucker who sent us like twenty million Ripple
tokens? How the fuck are you only calling us now?” In the background Sam
heard someone shouting, “Holy fuck, we found them!”
They’d even paid their taxes. (Sam had brought in his dad to help with
that.) And they resumed making millions of dollars a month in trading
profits. They weren’t the same company, however. They were no longer a
random assortment of effective altruists. They were a small team who had


--- PAGE 114 ---

endured an alarming drama and now trusted Sam. He’d been right all along!
To those who remained— and even to some who had quit— Sam went from
someone they weren’t quite sure about to a leader to be followed even if
they didn’t completely understand what he was doing, or why. (“Ex post I
was wrong and we should have been willing to have a higher risk appetite,”
one of the departed members of the management team later said.) An odd
company from the start had just become even more odd. The people inside
were those most able to tailor their thoughts and feelings to those of its
creator.
“To Sam: Sorry I wrote all of this in the third person,” wrote Caroline, in
late 2018. “I didn’t decide to send it to you until the end.” The turmoil had
been stressful for Caroline; but she’d left her job at Jane Street and had no
obvious place to go, and so, even though she wasn’t sure whom or what to
believe, she’d stuck it out. The dust had settled on what was being called
The Schism, and only Sam was still ruminating on the meaning of it all.
Alameda Research had righted itself and was consistently profitable. All
was not right with Caroline, however. Which was why she was now writing
to her boss.
“What is the problem?” she asked, in what at first glance appeared to be a
business memo.
I have pretty strong romantic feelings for Sam.
Not a business memo! It was merely written in a businesslike manner.
Why is this a problem?
These feelings consume a ton of my brainspace
This prevents me from thinking about other important things and takes up a lot of my time
These feelings can often be positive or feel good but are on net unpleasant


--- PAGE 115 ---

They affect my ability to work 
–  Mainly by amplifying work- related feelings in unhelpful ways e.g. “I did a bad job on this
thing”- > “now Sam will hate me”- > sad
The memo went on for four pages. She clearly wanted to be heard, and
equally clearly sensed that her intended audience was likely to be playing a
video game as he half listened. She pressed on anyway, sounding logical, or
at least reasonable, about what were at bottom emotional needs.
I feel embarrassed because the current situation just seems like so the obvious result of all the
choices I’ve made. I’m not sure what choices I should have made differently, though. It’s
possible I shouldn’t have worked at Alameda in the first place, though at the time I honestly
didn’t think it would be an issue (“kinda attracted to my boss” was also an issue when I
worked with Turner and it was a 100% nonissue.) Maybe I shouldn’t have slept with Sam,
though by that point it kind of felt like the feelings/desires were going to get worse over time
and become unbearable unless I did something.
For Sam’s benefit, she imagined what he might be thinking about her.
(“The last thing he told me was that he feels ‘conflicted.’ I imagine the
conflicting desires here are wanting to sleep with me, etc, vs. worry about
negative professional consequences.”) She listed the things Sam had done
that bothered her, among them giving off “confusing signals, e.g telling me
that he felt conflicted about having sex with me, then having sex with me,
then ignoring me for a few months.” She attempted an expected value
analysis of their clandestine relationship, such as it was, starting with the
costs:
scandal if it comes out
conflict of interest stuff
work- related tensions
She ended by wondering if she might not be better off quitting her job at
Alameda Research and cutting off all contact with Sam. On the other hand .
. .


--- PAGE 116 ---

It would be ideal if Sam and I could have a discussion to understand each other’s
feelings and reach a conclusion about what to do.
Ideal, perhaps. However, unlikely under the best of circumstances, and
circumstances were soon less than best. Not long before Caroline was
moved to write her memo to herself and then share it with Sam, Sam had
left for what was meant to be a brief trip to Hong Kong. After he read her
memo, he called the fifteen or so people still working for him in downtown
Berkeley to say he wasn’t coming back.
§ By late 2017, Berkeley had replaced Oxford as the financial capital of effective altruism. One
reason for this was that Facebook cofounder Dustin Moskovitz and his wife, Cari Tuna, signaled their
intent to give away most of their multibillion- dollar fortune to effective altruist causes— but there
were others. Oxford was still the movement’s intellectual center, but the Bay Area had become the
most likely place to raise the money needed to start what amounted to an effective altruist hedge
fund.
¶ According to CoinMarketCap, 2,177 different coins were in circulation by the end of 2018. In value
they ranged from bitcoin, with a market cap of around $60 billion, to a token called SHADE, with a
market cap of just under twenty dollars. The different coins at least pretended to serve some special
purpose or project: their creators usually issued what amounted to a mission statement. Sexcoin, for
example, claimed to want to make it easier for people to buy sex toys. PUTinCoin said it was
supporting the Russian economy and “was created to pay tribute to the Russian people and their
president.” Hot Potato was the best and, in a way, the most honest. A pure gambling mechanism, it
self- destructed in thirty days.
* Technically it was called XRP, but everyone called it Ripple.
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 117 ---

I
6
ARTIFICIAL LOVE
n late October 2008, someone calling himself Satoshi Nakamoto— and
who to this day, incredibly, has kept his identity a secret— published a
paper that introduced the idea of Bitcoin. It was mostly a technical
description of what would become the world’s first crypto currency. A
bitcoin was an “electronic coin”; it existed on a public ledger called a
“proof- of- work chain”; each time it was transferred from one person to
another, its authenticity was verified by programmers, who added the
transaction to the public ledger; those programmers, who would eventually
become known as bitcoin “miners,” were paid for their work by being given
new bitcoin; and so on.* (Interestingly, the word “blockchain” is nowhere in
the paper.) How Bitcoin worked was interesting chiefly to technologists;
what it might do was interesting to a much broader audience. It might allow
ordinary people to exit the existing financial system and never again rely on
the integrity of their fellow human financial beings. “What is needed is an
electronic payment system based on cryptographic proof instead of trust,”
wrote Satoshi.


--- PAGE 118 ---

Trust, or the need for it, bothered Satoshi, whoever he was. His paper
doesn’t mention the 2008 global financial crisis, but his invention was
obviously a response to it. If Bitcoin had its way, banks and governments
would no longer control money. Bitcoin could be owned and moved
without the need for a bank. Its value could not be eroded by governments.
It didn’t require anyone to trust anyone or anything, except, of course, the
integrity and design of the computer code. It was at once a plea for sound
money and an appeal to mistrust. It was both financial innovation and social
protest. Crypto was like the friend you’d made only because you shared an
enemy. The sort of person drawn to it, at least in the beginning, was the sort
of person suspicious of big banks and governments and other forms of
institutional authority.
Zane Tackett was a good example of the type, though to call Zane a type
was to miss both the joy and the point of Zane. “The OG,” is how others
often referred to Zane. In April of 2013, with the price of bitcoin hovering
around $100, Zane, then a student at the University of Colorado, had come
across a strange magazine article. The writer announced that he was going
into hiding and offered a prize of $10,000 to anyone who found him. The
prize would be paid in bitcoin— which payment, the writer explained, had
the virtue of being irreversible and untraceable.† The article, oddly enough,
caused Zane not to go looking for the writer but to want to know what a
bitcoin was. He’d recently been ripped off, after he’d sold a Michael Jordan
jersey card online and the guy who’d bought it had reversed the credit card
transaction and kept the Michael Jordan jersey card. Zane was outraged that
the financial system had allowed that to happen. At the same time, he
wasn’t much enjoying college, and was perhaps more open than most to
certain people telling him what he should do with his life other than remain
in college. “My grandpa had said you should go to China and learn Chinese,
because they’re going to take over the world,” said Zane.


--- PAGE 119 ---

He’d taken the advice once and gone to China right out of high school for
a year, before returning to attend the University of Colorado. Now he
bought some bitcoin, dropped out of the University of Colorado, and moved
to Beijing, where he landed a job at a crypto exchange called OKEx. He
was the first non- Chinese person ever to work at the place. Chinese
companies were private empires. Their employees were treated less as
valuable assets than as vassals. “The employees can get screwed, because if
you get screwed, what are you going to do?” said Zane. “There aren’t any
protections.” His grandfather approved of his growing fluency in Chinese,
even as his parents grew increasingly concerned that he’d gotten tangled up
in something he shouldn’t have. And Zane continued to acquire more
bitcoin, and bitcoin continued to rise in price, and one day Zane was rich. “I
got funny money, and then I got quoted in the Wall Street Journal and my
parents decided I must be okay,” said Zane.
By 2016, bitcoin’s price had cracked $400, and Zane was not only
wealthy but sufficiently well respected to cut deals with crypto exchanges
to work from wherever in the world he wanted. Everyone in crypto knew
Zane, and everyone trusted him. He had a gunslinger’s name and a
gunslinger’s rail- thinness and now wandered, unattached to anything or
anyone, from place to place, the way gunslingers supposedly wandered the
Wild West. One month he might be in Indonesia; the next, Argentina. Zane,
like bitcoin, became placeless. As a matter of principle, he lived his entire
financial life in bitcoin. He was paid in bitcoin and paid others only with
bitcoin. He enjoyed affirming his faith in the movement he had joined. “I
did kind of want to take the power of money away from government,” he
said. Zane, like Bitcoin, had a code.
By 2017 there had been a shift in the spirit of the movement he’d joined.
Bitcoin enthusiasts believed that Satoshi had created a replacement for
government- backed money, but government- backed money wasn’t what


--- PAGE 120 ---

Bitcoin most easily replaced. Gambling was. The mad rise in bitcoin’s price
in 2017 pulled in a generation of new speculators. It wasn’t like the stock
market: anyone in the world who knew how to use a computer could trade
crypto at any hour of any day of the week. The new demand for speculative
objects encouraged people to create hundreds of new cryptocurrencies.
Typically they were marketed to speculators as an investment in some new
enterprise, but seldom was the enterprise of any real value. The initial sale
of one new crypto coin, called EOS, raised $4.4 billion dollars. Having
nothing useful to do with the money, the founders announced it would be
used for “asset management.” The money grab bothered Zane. “It was,
‘Hey, you’re telling me I can tell people I’m going to build this project and
they’ll give me money and I get to keep the money even if I don’t build the
project?’ ” he said. The money grab likely would have perplexed Satoshi— ‐
as, very likely, would the very idea of a crypto exchange. Bitcoin’s original
selling point was that it eliminated the need for financial intermediaries. It
removed trust from trades. You could trade your bitcoin directly and easily
with other people in a way that you couldn’t trade Swiss francs, or shares in
Apple, or live cattle. As it turned out, the people who set out to eliminate
financial intermediaries simply created some new ones of their own,
including, by early 2019, two hundred fifty- four crypto exchanges.
These early crypto exchange founders weren’t typically financial experts.
They were a grab bag of technologists and libertarians and idealists and
high plains drifters, like Zane. Even more than, say, the New York Stock
Exchange, the institutions they created required their customers to trust
them. The New York Stock Exchange had regulators. If the New York
Stock Exchange stole all your money, its executives would be sent to jail. In
any case, the New York Stock Exchange would find it hard to steal all your
money, as you didn’t keep your money on the New York Stock Exchange
but in a brokerage account, managed by a bank, overseen by other


--- PAGE 121 ---

regulators. The new crypto exchanges had no regulators. They acted as both
exchange and custodian: they didn’t just enable you to buy bitcoin but also
housed the bitcoin you’d bought.
The whole thing was odd: these people joined together by their fear of
trust erected a parallel financial system that required more trust from its
users than did the traditional financial system. Outside the law, and often
hostile to it, they discovered many ways to run afoul of it. Crypto
exchanges routinely misplaced or lost their customers’ money. Crypto
exchanges routinely faked trading data to make it seem as though far more
trading had occurred on them than actually had. Crypto exchanges fell prey
to hackers, or to random rogue traders who gamed the exchanges’ risk
management.
Here was one example of the games that were played: Several of the
Asian exchanges offered a Bitcoin contract with one hundred times
leverage. Every now and then, some trader figured out that he could buy
$100 million worth of bitcoin at the same time he sold short another $100
million worth of bitcoin— and put up only a million dollars for each trade.
Whatever happened to the price of bitcoin, one of his trades would win and
the other would lose. If bitcoin popped by 10 percent, the rogue trader
collected $10 million on his long position and vanished— leaving the
exchange to cover the $10 million he’d lost on his short. But it wasn’t the
exchange that covered the loss: the exchange did not have the capital to
cover the loss. The losses were socialized. The customers— usually those on
the winning end of the trade— paid for them. And the losses could be huge.
The Chinese- founded exchange Huobi had one loss so big that it docked all
traders on the profitable end of trades nearly half their gains.
In traditional finance, founded on principles of trust, no one really had to
trust anyone. In crypto finance, founded on a principle of mistrust, people
trusted total strangers with vast sums of money. The situation was less than


--- PAGE 122 ---

ideal— and just how much less than ideal became clear to Zane Tackett in
August of 2016. That month, the exchange he was then working for,
Bitfinex, lost more than $70 million worth of bitcoin to a pair of hackers
working out of New York City. (By the time the couple was arrested, the
bitcoin was worth $4.6 billion.) Zane, then living in Thailand, found
himself responding to messages from the people whose money Bitfinex had
lost. “I got a lot of death threats and suicide notes from it,” he said. “The
death threats felt empty, but the suicide notes did not. They were
heartrending— I had put the money for my new house with you and we will
now be homeless.” He hated it. Because it was a point of pride with him to
be worthy of other crypto people’s trust.
After that, Zane found safer work with a new kind of crypto firm. The
firm specialized in over- the- counter trading— that is, privately buying and
selling large blocks of crypto to speculators who for various reasons wished
to avoid revealing their hand on public exchanges. The guy who started the
company had worked for Goldman Sachs and knew what he was doing. For
the next eighteen months, Zane made easy money in markets with fat
spreads between the bids and the offers, of a percentage point or more.
Toward the end of 2018 the markets suddenly changed again. Spreads
tightened dramatically, going from 1 percent to seven one- hundredths of a
percent. Some huge trader had entered the market. Whoever he was, he
more or less instantly established himself as the official market maker of
crypto. “It was pretty quick,” said Zane. “And I was like, What the fuck just
happened?” Zane’s trading firm sat in the middle of the crypto markets and
for the longest time had no idea who this new player might be. “Then
someone says, ‘It’s some vegan dude who wants to give all the money to
charity,’ ” said Zane. “Then someone else says this same vegan dude had
moved to Hong Kong and is starting his own crypto exchange.”


--- PAGE 123 ---

Zane became curious. He found a copy of the white paper the vegan dude
had published, proposing a new kind of crypto exchange. It stunned him.
And to his surprise, he found himself badly wanting to work for the vegan
dude.
Sam later couldn’t remember exactly why he’d agreed to fly to Asia in the
first place. It wasn’t to see sights in which he had zero interest. Flying
frightened him so badly that, before takeoff, he had to medicate himself and
listen to soothing music. “Viscerally I’ve never believed that a hunk of
metal would fly,” he said. The stated purpose of his trip was to attend a
crypto conference in Macau, but once he’d arrived, he discovered reasons to
stay. For the first time since he’d entered the market, he found himself in
the same room with every major player in crypto— many of whom were
Asian. Also for the first time, he let people outside his small circle of
effective altruists know who he was, and what he’d been up to; and it had
some powerful effects.
Up to that moment, in late November 2018, Alameda Research had
operated in the shadows. They traded more than 5 percent of the total
volume of crypto markets and were still a secret. Jane Street had left Sam
with the view that there was no upside to publicity, and that the best thing to
do was to avoid it. He’d traded billions of dollars in crypto but never in his
own name, or in the name of Alameda Research (whose name itself had
been chosen in part to hide the fact that the firm had anything to do with
crypto). The Asian crypto exchanges had grown so accustomed to their
customers not wanting anyone to know who they were that a few issued you
a pseudonym when you started doing business with them. One of the
biggest exchanges at the time, BitMEX, had bestowed fictitious names
upon Alameda Research’s trading accounts, each consisting of three
seemingly randomly generated words. Shell- Paper- Bird was one. Hot- ‐


--- PAGE 124 ---

Relic- Fancier was another— and so weirdly funny that the Alameda traders
had commissioned a painting of a Hot Relic Fancier. On BitMEX’s
leaderboard of the year’s most profitable crypto traders, Shell- Paper- Bird
and Hot- Relic- Fancier were both in the top ten. No one had any idea that
they were all the same trader, or who that trader might be. That changed in
Macau.
I’m Hot- Relic- Fancier, Sam would say, when he was introduced to
someone at the conference he thought might be important.
No, you’re not, was the typical reaction.
Even Sam knew that he wasn’t credible: a twenty- six- year- old white guy
with the hairdo of a lunatic, dressed in baggy shorts and a wrinkled T- shirt.
He needed to pull out his phone and open the trading account and show
them his money before these people believed him. Once he’d done that a
few times, a lot of people wanted to meet Sam. He had never been big on
face- to- face encounters, but he now had to concede that their effects were
astonishing. Weeks before he flew to Asia, one of the big Chinese crypto
exchanges had frozen Alameda’s account with a bunch of money in it, for
no obvious reason. Customer service hadn’t returned their calls. After
meeting Sam in person, the exchange’s bosses handed him back his money.
“All of a sudden I’m in a room with an important person from every single
crypto company,” said Sam. “My calendar is filled with meetings every one
of which is more interesting than the most interesting meeting I’d have in
the Bay Area.” More often than not, the people he met hadn’t known what
to make of him, or of Alameda Research. “There was no one like us out
there,” said Sam.
At that moment, Sam himself wasn’t quite sure what to make of the
crypto trading firm he’d created. His civil war with his fellow effective
altruists he now viewed as “the worst thing that has happened to me in my
life.” He’d pulled together a group of people he admired and who shared his


--- PAGE 125 ---

values, and he’d wound up a pariah to half of them, who were still out there
trashing him to their fellow effective altruists. “It made me question
myself,” he said. “It was the first time in my life I was surrounded by
people I respected who are saying that I’m wrong and that I’m crazy. It
made me question my sanity.” When he flew to Asia, he was still writing
and rewriting about the traumatic event. “I did damage to the EA
community,” he wrote. “I made people hate each other a little more and
trust each other a little less . . . and I severely curtailed my own future
ability to do good. I’m pretty sure my net impact on the world has, so far,
been negative and that is why.”
One of the curious things about Sam’s writing, given that much of it was
for his eyes only, was how evenhanded it was. He clearly felt sorry for
himself, but recognized that others might feel even sorrier for themselves.
He really didn’t like to blame himself for anything; he didn’t particularly
like to blame anyone else, either. “I’m a utilitarian,” he wrote. “Fault is just
a construct of human society. It serves different purposes for different
people. It can be a tool to discourage bad actions; an attempt to recover
pride in the face of hardship, an outlet for rage, and many more things. I
guess maybe the most important definition— to me, at least— is how did
everyone’s actions reflect on the probability distribution of their future
behavior?”
How did everyone’s actions reflect on the probability distribution of their
future behavior. The sentence told you a lot about how Sam viewed other
people, and maybe himself too. Not as fixed characters— good or bad,
honest or false, brave or cowardly— but as a probability distribution around
some mean. People were neither the worst nor the best thing they’d ever
done. “I deeply believe and act as if people are probability distributions, not
their means,” he wrote. “It’s pretty important to me that others engage on
that level as well.” His fellow EAs’ behavior caused him to update his


--- PAGE 126 ---

understanding of their probability distributions in ways that left him less
willing to hire EAs. At the start he’d thought that hiring only effective
altruists created a special advantage— everyone in the company would trust
each other’s motives, and so no one would need to waste time and energy
doing the many things that people did to create trust among themselves.
They could skip the one- on- one meetings, and the eye contact and the firm
handshakes and, above all, the arguments about who deserved to be paid
how much, and why. As it turned out, they couldn’t.
After Tara and the others had left, Alameda returned to profitability and
remained there. It wasn’t making as much money as it had at the very start,
but it arrived at the end of 2018 with an annualized return of more than 110
percent. Seeing the firm right itself, at least a few effective altruists,
including the remaining employees, wondered if Sam had not known what
he was doing all along. A few months after The Schism, one former female
employee sent Sam a message with a leading question: Why do you think
there’s been this theme of people thinking you’re wrong about some EV
[expected value] and you turning out to be right but people not
knowing/understanding that? Sam replied to her in three separate brief
messages.
Because people decided that Sam is evil and then refused to acknowledge any evidence that
contradicted it.
Because they were too emotionally invested in the belief, in decent part because it was a way
for them to avoid assigning any fault or blame to themselves.
And also because it’s a big social statement to try to destroy someone’s life and really
embarrassing to take it back.
To put it another way: people misread him, decided that he couldn’t be
trusted, and then refused to change their minds about him. He needed to do
a better job of helping others to solve the puzzle. The facial expressions


--- PAGE 127 ---

he’d gone to so much trouble to master had been insufficient: he needed to
be more explicit.
Among the pages he wrote about the crisis were short documents
addressed to his employees, with titles like “Some Notes About Working
With Me” and “What it Means When Sam is Blocking You.” Woven
through his writings was advice to current and future employees about how
to understand him. “I spent a while during, middle, after and way after
trying to figure out what I should change about myself,” he said later. “And
that was a very frustrating experience. The thing that triggered me was that
people didn’t like my management and said I needed to learn management
technique.” He still didn’t think there existed any management technique
worth learning, just a lot of self- contradictory nonsense about it. “It’s the
blind leading the blind here,” he said. “The only way is to teach yourself to
see.”
In the end, he decided that there was just one change he needed to make
in himself: to become less off- putting to others. Even the people of whom
he most approved had complained that he needed to be “more
approachable,” and “offer more constructive advice,” and be “less
negative.” He was genuinely mystified by the criticism. He didn’t think of
himself as frightening. He didn’t intend to intimidate. But he wasn’t going
to change human nature, and so he decided that, going forward, he would
bury any negative reactions he had to anything anyone said or did. He
would give human beings with whom he interacted the impression that he
was far more interested in whatever they were saying or doing than he
actually was. He’d agree with them, even if he didn’t. Whatever idiocy
came from them, he’d reply with a Yuuuuuuppp! “It comes with a cost, but
it’s on balance worth it,” he said. “In most ways, people like you more if
you agree with them.” He went from being a person you’d be surprised to


--- PAGE 128 ---

learn approves of you to a person you’d be surprised to learn that, actually
no, he doesn’t.
Sam didn’t need to change himself as much as he needed to change his
business. By early 2019, there was a yawning gap between his self- given
goal to generate dollars to donate and the number of dollars that he was able
to generate as a crypto trader. In 2018, trading $40 million in capital,
Alameda Research had generated $30 million in profits. Their effective
altruist investors took half, leaving behind $15 million. Five million of that
was lost to payroll and severance for the departing crowd; another $5
million was lost to expenses. On the remaining $5 million they’d paid taxes,
and so, after all was said and done, they’d donated to effective altruist
causes just $1.5 million. It wasn’t anything like enough, in Sam’s view. “We
needed to get a lot more capital, or way cheaper capital, or make much
higher returns,” he said. But at that moment, with his reputation in EA
circles in tatters, it was not obvious where any new capital would come
from. The crypto markets were becoming more efficient every day. The big
Wall Street high- frequency trading firms like Tower Research Capital and
Jump Trading and even Jane Street were entering the markets and engaging
in the same deforestation they practiced in other financial markets. Even if
Sam somehow found more capital, there’d be less money to be made with
it.
The idea of creating a crypto exchange was at once obvious and
implausible. Obvious because the crypto exchanges were money machines.
They were the casinos that sat in the middle of a world- historic speculative
frenzy and charged fees for every bet that was placed. The founders of the
world’s half- dozen or so biggest crypto exchanges were all likely already
billionaires, even though the exchanges themselves routinely lost their
customers’ money. Implausible because of who Sam was, and how he
related to people. He had no clue how to engage with ordinary people in the


--- PAGE 129 ---

way ordinary people needed engaging with, when you ran an exchange. To
create a successful exchange, you needed to attract a crowd; you needed to
relate to a mass audience. You needed customers. And you only got them if
they trusted you. And they only trusted you if they knew who you were or
thought they did. Sam wasn’t sure his own colleagues knew who he was,
which was why he was writing memos to explain it.
Plus he’d already tried and failed to do it. Back in May 2018, in
Berkeley, Sam had asked Gary Wang to write the code for a bitcoin
exchange, and within a month Gary had done it. CryptonBTC, it was called.
They put it out on the web without any idea how to attract attention to it. No
one showed up to trade on it. It was as if it had never happened. The code
Gary had written for the first exchange had been sweet, however. From the
total nothingness that had been CryptonBTC, Sam had learned that if he
asked Gary to create a crypto futures exchange, he could do it in a month,
and it would be more reliable and less risky for its users than any existing
exchange. Gary was a genius.
In Hong Kong, Sam and his small team began to pitch the billionaire
founders of existing exchanges on the idea of paying Alameda Research
(Gary) to create a crypto exchange, different in important ways from any
that existed. Alameda would supply the technology; the existing exchanges
would supply the customers, and the trust. The most likely buyer, and the
person to whom Sam himself pitched the idea, was CZ.
CZ was Changpeng Zhao, CEO of the crypto exchange Binance. Born in
Jiangsu province, he was raised, from adolescence, in Canada, and educated
there, returning eventually to China, with Canadian citizenship. He’d run
through some ordinary jobs on the fringes of high finance— including a stint
as a developer at Bloomberg— before landing as the chief technology
officer at OKCoin. He’d left OKCoin in 2015 and created Binance in 2017;
two years later, he was being described in industry publications as “the most


--- PAGE 130 ---

powerful man in crypto.” It might not have been true at the time, but it was
about to become so. In mid- 2019, Binance was still just a spot crypto
exchange— it did not trade crypto futures or other derivatives— no bigger
than a handful of others, and handicapped by its inability to offer most of its
customers the leverage they longed for. (Everyone in crypto wanted to bet
more than they had.) Binance’s customers traded various cryptocurrencies
but generally weren’t borrowing money from the exchange to do it. CZ
preferred it that way. And he was a bit wary of what Sam was proposing: an
exchange that traded only crypto futures contracts.
A futures exchange was different in important ways from a spot
exchange. On a futures exchange, traders put up as collateral only a fraction
of the bets they made. On a trade that was losing money, the exchange
typically asked for more collateral at the end of the day. If a trade went bad
fast, it could wipe out the collateral and leave the exchange on the hook for
losses— whereupon the exchange turned to its customers to cover the losses,
as crypto exchanges had, historically. The design that FTX (Gary) had come
up with solved the problem, in an elegant way. It monitored customers’
positions not by the day but by the second. The instant any customer’s trade
went into the red, it was liquidated. This of course was unpleasant for the
customers whose positions went into the red. But it promised to do away
with socialized losses, which had plagued crypto exchanges from the
beginning. The new exchange’s losses would never need to be socialized,
because the exchange would never have losses.
Sam had first met CZ not long after his move to Hong Kong at the end of
2018. Binance was looking for crypto companies to pay $150,000 apiece to
sponsor its conference in early 2019 in Singapore, and Sam stepped in with
the money. CZ had rewarded him by appearing onstage with him, and ever
after, Sam was to say, “That’s what gave us legitimacy in crypto.” He’d
effectively paid CZ to be his friend. But even then Sam didn’t have a good


--- PAGE 131 ---

feel for CZ, except that they didn’t have much in common. Sam lived in his
head and thought his way to decisions, or at least believed that he did. If CZ
ever had an original thought he never expressed it, and he seemed to feel his
way to his decisions. Sam thought about the size of the pie, while CZ cared
more about the size of his piece. Sam was gunning to build an exchange for
big institutional crypto traders; CZ was all about pitching to retail and the
little guy. Sam hated conflict and so was almost weirdly quick to forget
grievances; CZ thrived on conflict and nurtured the emotions that led to it.
CZ had a complex web of allies and enemies. In the pitch book he created
to launch Binance back in 2017, much of what he listed as his qualifications
for the task were social alliances with other crypto insiders. (Zane Tackett
among them. In a brief biography, CZ described Zane, oddly, in relation to
himself, saying that to Zane he played the role of “mentor and good
friend.”) Sam had no real social alliances at all. In his interactions with CZ,
had he not trotted out his learned facial expressions, he would have spent a
lot of time staring blankly while CZ spoke. “CZ sort of just says things,”
said Sam. “They aren’t dumb. They aren’t smart. I didn’t have much of a
sense of him until he had to make decisions.”
The first decision CZ had to make was whether to pay Sam the $40
million he was asking for his cleverly designed futures exchange. After
thinking it over for a few weeks in March 2019, CZ decided no— and then
told his people to create a futures exchange on their own. Which struck Sam
as such an ordinary and vaguely disappointing thing to do. “He’s kind of a
douche but not worse than a douche,” said Sam. “He should be a great
character but he’s not.”
Only after CZ turned him down did Sam decide to create an exchange
himself. The idea was simple: the first crypto futures exchange that was
well enough designed that it would serve the needs not just of crypto people
but also of big professional traders, like Jane Street. Still, Sam was deeply


--- PAGE 132 ---

uneasy about it. “We were going to build a product that is better than any
product out there,” he said. “If it works it is worth billions of dollars, but I
thought there was a better than fifty percent chance it wouldn’t work. I’d
never done marketing. I’d never talked to media. I’d never had customers. It
was just different from anything that I’d ever done.” And so he started
grabbing people who might do the things he didn’t know how to do. People
unlike any he had ever worked with, but who had strong ties with other
crypto people. He grabbed Zane Tackett, for instance, and with Zane came a
great deal of crypto trust. Even before he grabbed Zane Tackett he grabbed
Ryan Salame.
If there was such a thing as the opposite of an effective altruist it was Ryan.
Ryan was a freedom- loving, tax-loathing Republican. He had started his
career as a tax accountant at Ernst & Young and been liberated from the
misery and the tedium after the crypto trading firm Circle hired him to do
their books. It had taken Ryan about two seconds to see that crypto trading
was more fun than tax accounting. When Sam found him, Ryan was
working as a salesman on Circle’s trading desk in Hong Kong and had
become a walking advertisement for worldly pleasure. Any guy in crypto
who wanted what every guy in crypto wanted found in Ryan an ally in the
pursuit: Ryan was who you called if you wanted to have fun.
Ryan was handsome; Ryan was also shrewd. When Alameda Research
ramped up its trading in Hong Kong and collapsed the spreads for everyone
else, Ryan was struck by just how much smarter it was than the rest of the
market. He had no idea who Sam Bankman- Fried was, but he noticed that
CZ seemed to want to keep him close— going so far as to allow Sam to set
up a booth for Alameda Research at Binance’s conference. Ryan also
noticed that Sam and his traders lacked the usual crypto social graces.
“They wouldn’t respond to you in chats,” said Ryan. “They wouldn’t react


--- PAGE 133 ---

to your jokes. It was not the experience you were used to in crypto. Sam
wasn’t part of the crowd. No one had seen him at anything.”
Eventually Ryan visited Sam in his new Hong Kong office. “You talk to
Sam for five minutes and you realize something’s different,” he said. Sam’s
disinterest in ordinary social interaction had spilled over into his company
even more dramatically than Ryan had imagined it might have. “It was just
a college dorm of nerds sitting at computer screens,” as he put it. “They
never left the office.” Ryan could see that Sam could use him to establish
social connections with crypto people, and to make them feel comfortable
with him— which at that moment they were not. “Sam forgets how many
people thought he was a scammer at first,” said Ryan. “You’d expect to find
a Sam behind any scam.”
Sam did have one thing going for him, socially, with other crypto people.
The higher crypto prices rose, the greater the flood into crypto of sober- ‐
minded people in suits that people like Zane found insufferable. Ryan might
have counted as one such person, but Ryan was not sober- minded, so he got
a pass. The Goldman guys and the venture capitalists and the corporate
lawyers turned crypto bros— they were all part of this invasion of
conventional people who wanted to make fast money without the kookiness
that had made the fast money possible. The pseuds would seek common
ground with the original crypto religionists by exhibiting their excitement
about the technology. The blockchain! The blockchain is going to
change . . . everything, they’d say, and hope that would suffice. A religion
based on hating banks and government and any sort of institutional
authority— well, for the pseuds, that was usually taking things too far.
The crypto religionists, the people who had been drawn to the cause for
their own reasons, had, at best, mixed feelings about the people who came
to it later, and just for the money. About Sam, Ryan thought, they might be
a bit more inclined to suspend judgment. Sam shared an important trait with


--- PAGE 134 ---

the crypto religionists: a dissatisfaction with the world as he found it. He
did not have any particular hostility toward governments or banks. He just
thought grown- ups were pointless.
Ryan was less a grown- up than the highest expression of a new species,
the crypto bro, that Sam sensed he needed on hand. He hired Ryan without
being totally sure what Ryan would do. “The job description was sort of
make it all better,” said Ryan.
To create a crypto exchange, Sam needed crypto people, but he also
needed money to pay the crypto people. The normal, old- fashioned way to
get it would be to go hat in hand to family and friends, or to raise the money
from venture capitalists. Sam didn’t have any friends with the kind of
money he needed, and he didn’t know any venture capitalists. What he had
was a token. It belonged to the same general family as the thousands of
other crypto coins that had been created since 2017 and shilled to the
public. The FTX token was called FTT.
The most important feature of FTT was that its holders were collectively
entitled to roughly a third of the annual revenues of the FTX exchange. Of
the $1 billion in revenues the exchange generated in 2021, for example,
$333 million would be set aside to “buy back and burn” FTT. FTX would
remove tokens from circulation in the same way that a public company
bought back its shares, and thus raise the value of all remaining shares. FTT
was not merely like stock in FTX, it was stock in FTX— and even came
with voting rights on certain decisions made inside the company. As it gave
you a share of the gross, rather than the net, it was arguably even more
valuable than the stock. “The crypto people would say, Why would I want
your equity? I’d rather just buy the token,” said Sam. “The venture
capitalists would say, What’s a token?”
One hitch to the tokens was that they were illegal to sell inside the United
States. The explosion of new crypto tokens had spawned a new game of cat


--- PAGE 135 ---

and mouse, between token creators and securities regulators. The world’s
most aggressive securities regulator, the US Securities and Exchange
Commission, now devoted a meaningful amount of energy to arguing that a
lot of these tokens were securities (which they obviously were), and so a
threat to American investors, and banned from the US unless they first won
SEC approval (which seemed highly unlikely). Crypto exchanges and token
creators who wanted to sell to Americans insisted that these tokens weren’t
securities but more like, say, Starbucks Rewards points. As FTX was
incorporated in Antigua, operated in Hong Kong, and in principle did not
allow American investors to trade on its crypto exchange, and in principle
did not sell its tokens to Americans, it was beyond the reach of the SEC.
At any rate, the buyers of the FTT would either be foreigners, or
Americans living outside the country. And now that was who Sam was
courting, in his own awkward way. Three weeks before he offered FTT to
the public, he flew to a conference in Taipei. All the big crypto players
turned up at a party thrown by one of the biggest exchanges. And so,
mechanically, did Sam. “Tonight was a night about booze and women and
lasers and loud booming music,” he wrote in his journal afterward, “but
there was an odd microclimate that seemed to follow me around as I
wandered between the tables. It didn’t start to crystallize until I walked by
CZ a few . . . times and each time he broke eye contact with his eye candy
and embraced me: people were thinking about us, a lot. This was the first
time CZ seemed more interested in me than I was in him.”
Out of thin air FTX minted three hundred fifty million FTT tokens. Sam
offered a chunk of them to employees at five cents each, and another chunk
to important crypto people, like CZ, who might be friends of the exchange,
at ten cents. CZ initially declined, as did most of FTX’s own employees— ‐
Ryan Salame was a big exception— but other outside investors bought up
enough that Sam eventually raised the price, first to twenty cents and then


--- PAGE 136 ---

to seventy. On July 29, 2019, FTT was listed on FTX and thus offered to the
general public. (“That was the most nervous I’d ever seen Sam,” said
Nishad.) It opened at $1 and traded up to $1.50. Inside two months, Ryan
Salame had made thirty times his money, and the outside buyers had made
fifteen times their money. Of the original three hundred fifty million tokens
minted, FTX had sold roughly sixty million at about a dollar less than they
were now worth. Within a week or so, Sam’s doubts about his ability to
earn the trust of a mass audience had turned to regret for selling FTT way
too cheap. Just how cheap became clear when, a few weeks later, CZ called
Sam and offered to buy a 20 percent stake in FTX for $80 million.
It was as if a wildcatter had accidentally built his house on an oil field:
Sam hadn’t even really wanted to run a crypto exchange. He’d built a
casino that offered gamblers the chance to make bets bigger than their bank
accounts justified, at seemingly no risk to the casino or to the other
gamblers, and it was exactly what the crypto world wanted. His timing,
though accidental, was perfect, as big professional traders like Jane Street
were entering the crypto markets and in need of a professional- grade futures
exchange. Sam’s choice of location, also accidental, was perfect too: Hong
Kong was maybe the only spot in the world where he and CZ would both
feel at ease. Hong Kong was like a chessboard with a voice embedded in it
to shout rule changes in the middle of every game. The Hong Kong
regulators gave a crypto exchange cover to do pretty much whatever it
wanted to do but changed the rules often enough to keep it interesting.
On top of it all, Hong Kong, and Asia generally, teemed with ambitious
young people with no particular qualifications who thought nothing of
dropping whatever they’d been doing to go to work for a crypto exchange
run by a person who was all but unknowable. Sam needed people just like
that: right from the start, FTX should have hung a sign on the door that said
No Experience Necessary. Sam hired Natalie Tien, who had little


--- PAGE 137 ---

experience with media or marketing, and made her head of corporate public
relations, for instance. He hired a young saleswoman from the Huobi
exchange named Constance Wang and made her the company’s chief
operating officer. Faced with a necessity, Sam turned it into a virtue. “It’s a
moderately bad sign if you are having someone do the same thing they’ve
done before,” he said. “It’s adverse selection of a weird sort. Because: why
are they coming to you?”
The funny thing about Ramnik Arora was that all he’d really been looking
for was a chance to walk to work. He’d grown up in India, completed a
master’s in computer science at Stanford, done a stint at Goldman Sachs,
and was now married and settled in the East Bay. For three years he’d had a
miserable commute, from Berkeley to a job at Facebook in Menlo Park.
He’d started on a team working on real- time auctions for online ads— with
the goal of showing the perfect ad to the perfect person at the perfect time
— then moved to another team trying to launch Libra, Facebook’s doomed
bid to create its own cryptocurrency.
Somewhere between Goldman Sachs and Facebook, Ramnik had given
up looking for passion in his work. If he seemed older than he was, it was
because he was letting go of one of the things that defines youth: hope.
“The smartest minds of our generation are either buying or selling stocks or
predicting if you’ll click on an ad,” he said. “This is the tragedy of our
generation.” The effect of the tragedy had been to shrink his ambition. He
was thinking less and less about changing the world and more and more
about making himself and his wife comfortable within it. “I’d read a study
that there was a fifteen percent happiness gain if you could walk to work,”
he said.
And so it was with domestic happiness in mind that, in the late spring of
2020, he’d plugged “crypto” and “Berkeley” into LinkedIn. He’d received a


--- PAGE 138 ---

single result: Alameda Research. He’d never heard of it. He sent in his
résumé. Within minutes he received a Zoom invitation from Sam
Bankman- Fried— who wanted to talk to him not about Alameda but about a
new crypto exchange that Alameda Research had launched, called FTX.
The numbers coming out of Sam’s mouth via Zoom shocked Ramnik, as did
Sam’s willingness to disclose them to a total stranger. FTX had existed for
just a bit more than a year. In the final six months of 2019, it had generated
about $10 million in revenues. In 2020, the number was going to jump to
somewhere between $80 million and $100 million.
At some point during the conversation, Ramnik figured out that Sam was
not in Berkeley but in Hong Kong, where it was three in the morning.
People behind Sam were scurrying back and forth with all the hustle and
bustle of people in the middle of their workday. Whatever Sam actually said
on that first call, Ramnik heard mainly a sound he’d nearly forgotten. It was
the sound of passion.
He took a job with FTX, at an 80 percent pay cut to what he’d been
making at Facebook (and at a 95 percent discount to what TikTok was
offering). Between Alameda and FTX, he was Sam’s fiftieth hire. His title
was Head of Product, which was weird, as Ramnik didn’t know anything
about the product. On the Zoom call, Sam had said that he actually had no
idea what Ramnik might do for FTX but that they’d figure out something.
Once Ramnik moved to Hong Kong, his absence of a purpose became a
problem. FTX clearly didn’t need a Head of Product. There was no such
job. Gary had written all the code. A tiny force of young Chinese women
and crypto dudes were already out evangelizing the product, and they didn’t
need Ramnik’s help. Nishad was basically managing the developers, who
fixed any problems that arose with the product, and dealing with anyone
who was unhappy with their job or Sam’s management style.


--- PAGE 139 ---

For the first twenty- one days on the job, which he spent quarantined
inside a dreary Hong Kong hotel room, Ramnik wasn’t sure what he was
supposed to do. He fiddled some with the exchange’s computer code— the
product— but every time he did, he had to let Nishad know what he’d done.
He’d send Sam notes, but Sam would take two days to reply. Emerging
from his quarantine, Ramnik asked Nishad, “Am I a net positive for the
company or a net negative?” “Net negative,” replied Nishad. “The amount
of time I’m spending checking on your work is greater than the amount of
time it would take for me to do the work myself.” Ramnik actually
appreciated the honesty. And decided he’d need to find something else to
do.
Soon he found himself playing a role that had never existed either in the
company or in Sam’s life. “I quickly became the person Sam relied on for
random things,” said Ramnik. “The first thing he asked me to do was find
an auditor, because we didn’t have one.” As Sam didn’t care about titles,
Ramnik’s never changed. He was and would remain Head of Product, when
he more accurately could be described as Sam’s Handyman. “It was, ‘Lots
of stuff comes up, and you’re going to handle what comes up,’ ” said
Ramnik. Oddly, much of what came up was, in one way or another, about
trust. As in: how could FTX get people to trust it?
Sam didn’t hire grown- ups, but now he had Ramnik, and Ramnik had
some grown- up- like traits. He hesitated before he spoke. He’d worked for
years at Goldman Sachs and Facebook. He’d just turned thirty- three and
could pass for thirty- five and his knee didn’t bounce up and down when he
spoke. He wore long pants. He had a wife and an almost Wemmick- like
view, not shared by Sam or anyone who had thus far managed to survive
Sam’s management style, that private life was one thing and the office
another. He had the ability to imagine what grown- ups might think if, say,
they found you in bed with the wrong person. It was Ramnik who


--- PAGE 140 ---

intervened when Sam went all in on the idea of FTX being the first to list
the token of a Taiwanese porn business called Swag. Swag would cut them
a big check in exchange for FTX creating a market for Swag tokens; FTX
would thus become the financial engine for a Taiwanese porn empire. “I
had to talk him out of that,” said Ramnik. “In talking him out of it, I felt
there was a fork in the road. There was no turning back. Sam was hell- bent
on doing this. And I’m like, No fucking way we’re doing it.”
Inside of crypto world, none of Ramnik’s qualities made much of a
difference and indeed they might have been a disadvantage. Outside of it,
they were invaluable.
Ramnik noted that people didn’t identify with companies; they identified
with people. They might never trust this new crypto exchange, but they
might trust its founder, odd as he was, if they thought they knew who he
was. “The first thing we asked was can we get Sam on TV,” said Ramnik.
“That seemed like a long shot. But Natalie somehow did it.” To help her in
her new and unfamiliar role as head of FTX public relations, Natalie had
called a New York public relations firm called M Group Strategic
Communications. Its head, Jay Morakis, was at first wary. “I thought maybe
it was some shady Chinese thing,” he said. But then he heard Sam’s pitch,
and watched Sam’s first big public appearance, on Bloomberg TV.
“Whatever the closest thing in my PR experience has been to this, nothing
is close,” he said. “I’m fifty years old. I’ve had my firm for twenty years
and I’ve never seen anything like it. All my guys want to meet Sam. I have
CEOs calling me and asking: Can you do for us what you did for Sam?”
He’d had to explain, back in 2021, that he actually hadn’t done anything.
Sam had just sort of . . . happened.
The effect of Sam’s media appearances in the latter part of 2021
exceeded everyone’s expectations. This person who had always kept the
world at a distance, and from whom the world had mostly kept its distance,


--- PAGE 141 ---

somehow, through media, came alive in people’s imaginations. Inside of
crypto Sam was becoming famous; outside of crypto he was still unknown
and, therefore, untrusted.
Part of Ramnik’s odd new job was to help fix that. “How do you
determine something is credible?” he said. “It’s by association. Trust comes
from preexisting relationships.” Sam had no preexisting relationships;
before about the age of eighteen he’d hardly had any relationships at all;
since then, he had come to know a bunch of effective altruists (a lot of
whom were furious with him for creating a civil war inside their movement)
and another bunch of Jane Street traders (who were massively irritated with
him for leaving Jane Street to create a rival firm, and for poaching Jane
Street traders).
And so, with Sam, Ramnik set out to create new relationships, starting
with some venture capitalists. FTX didn’t really need capital. But if they
could find the right venture capitalist to form a relationship with Sam, it
might help them ease their way into the minds of others outside of crypto.
“We had this conversation about legitimacy and trust,” said Ramnik. “It
was, ‘Can we raise money from a good VC?’ No Chinese VC was a big
thing. We wanted to be associated with US institutions.”
The first conversations between the crypto people and the venture capital
people were a bit awkward. “They wanted samples of what our internal
controls are,” said Ramnik. “We didn’t have any.” The venture capitalists
could see how fast FTX was growing— that they were wildcatters sitting on
a gusher— but were unsure if what they were seeing was closer to the last
gallon of oil than the first. Was it just a big trade that would go away with
the crypto craze, or was Sam building something enduring? If the latter,
he’d need access to American investors, and for that FTX needed internal
controls. They also needed to be licensed and regulated.


--- PAGE 142 ---

Therein lay the biggest problem, in earning the trust of the VC: there was
no global license for a crypto futures exchange. Some countries, like Hong
Kong, offered a license for a spot crypto exchange and agreed to turn a
blind eye to futures trading. Most countries, like the United States, offered
no license at all. The United States government wasn’t even sure which
agency should regulate crypto— the Securities and Exchange Commission
or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The question of who
regulates any given crypto product in the United States turns on whether the
product is defined as a security or a commodity. Bitcoin was defined early
on, in 2015, as a commodity, and so is regulated by the CFTC. FTT— or for
that matter a leveraged Bitcoin token— would likely be defined as a security
and so fall under the jurisdiction of the SEC.
At that moment, in early 2021, both agencies were sort of claiming
authority, but neither was doing much with it. With no rules in place, the
people who opened crypto businesses in the US were constantly at risk of
lawsuits and fines over anything they weren’t explicitly permitted to do— ‐
which, apart from buying and selling bitcoin, was basically everything.
Crypto people would implore the regulators for permission to sell a new
crypto token, or to pay interest on crypto deposits or create a crypto futures
contract; the regulators would hem and haw; the crypto people would push
ahead and actually do something, and the regulators would sanction them.
“It’s a game of twenty questions with the regulators, but if you ask the
wrong question, you get fined,” explained Sam.
As for the venture capitalists, Sam had no real experience with them: this
was an entirely new game. Ramnik watched him figure out how to play it.
In early 2021, Jump Trading— not a conventional venture capitalist— ‐
offered to buy a stake in FTX at a company valuation of $4 billion. “Sam
said no, the fundraise is at twenty billion,” recalled Ramnik. Jump
responded by saying that they’d be interested at that price if Sam could find


--- PAGE 143 ---

others who were too— which told you that the value people assigned to new
businesses was arbitrary.
Selling a new business to a VC was apparently less like selling a sofa
than it was like pitching a movie idea. The VCs’ eagerness to buy turned
less on your hard numbers than on how excited they became about the story
you told. It was as if they spent their day listening to stories and picking the
ones they liked best. There was no rhyme or reason to their evaluations:
English class all over again. Sam quickly figured out that most of the stories
these people heard were just not very persuasive. “Most people tell stories
that are trivial to falsify,” he said. The story he and Ramnik told was not
that way. It went roughly as follows:
Global stocks traded $600 billion a day, crypto was now trading $200
billion each day, and the gap was closing. Inside of eighteen months, FTX
had gone from nothing to the world’s fifth- biggest crypto exchange, and
every day, it was seizing market share from its competitors. They were now
the only crypto exchange making a priority of obtaining licenses and going
legit. They were also the only crypto exchange that hadn’t in one way or
another offended US financial regulators. Once licensed in the United
States, a crypto exchange like FTX could also trade stocks or anything else
people wanted to trade and challenge, for example, the New York Stock
Exchange. To that end, Sam had already incorporated a business called FTX
US— but was being careful about allowing customers to trade stuff on it of
which the SEC might disapprove. “The argument was, ‘Look how fast
we’re growing, the market is huge— and we’re going to be the credible
party,’ ” said Ramnik.
There was a circularity to their situation. To be the credible party, it
would help to have money from fancy venture capitalists. To get the VCs’
money, they needed to be the credible party. And yet it was all so loosey- ‐
goosey. After hearing their pitch, one fund sent them a term sheet and said,


--- PAGE 144 ---

“We love you so much just fill in a number.” Sam filled in a number: $20
billion. The fund went quiet for a bit and then, when Ramnik called, said
they’d changed their mind. A British venture capital firm oddly named
Hedosophia called and offered to pay what Sam asked— and hand over
$100 million for a 0.05 percent stake in FTX. Ramnik hardly knew who
they were and so arranged a call with them. “It was weird,” he said. “I felt
they didn’t know enough about the business. Basic shit like they didn’t
know that FTX US existed.”
Even so, the Hedosophia people sent Ramnik a term sheet— only to
change their minds after a mini crash in crypto prices and withdraw it. A
guy from Blackstone, the world’s biggest private investment firm, called
Sam to say that he thought a valuation of $20 billion was too high— and
that Blackstone would invest at a valuation of $15 billion. “Sam said, ‘If
you think it is too high, I’ll let you short a billion of our stock at a valuation
of twenty billion,’ ” recalled Ramnik. “The guy said, ‘We don’t short
stock.’ And Sam said that if you worked at Jane Street you’d be fired the
first week.”‡
Even if the VCs didn’t all realize that Sam was playing a video game at
the same time that he was talking to them, most sensed that he didn’t care
what they had to say. Ramnik came to think that Sam’s indifference to their
feelings actually heightened their interest in him. That FTX was profitable
and didn’t really need the money probably also helped. In the end, between
the summer of 2020 and the spring of 2021, in four rounds of fundraising,
they sold roughly 6 percent of the company for $2.3 billion. Roughly one
hundred fifty different venture capital firms invested. All of them caved to
Sam’s refusal to give them a seat on the board (he had no board) or any
other form of control over the business.
And yet FTX was just a piece of a much larger puzzle of Sam’s design.
He owned 90 percent of Alameda Research. And the nature of Alameda


--- PAGE 145 ---

Research was changing. It was still a quant trading firm, with its good
months and bad months, but its traders were playing, in new ways, with
bigger and bigger sums of money. Crypto world had created what were, in
effect, unregulated new banks. People would deposit their crypto with, for
instance, Genesis Global Capital or Celsius Network, and receive some rate
of interest, and these pseudobanks would re-lend the crypto to traders like
Alameda Research. In early 2018, rich effective altruists had charged Sam
interest rates of 50 percent a year. Three years later, Genesis and Celsius
were willing to lend billions to Alameda Research at interest rates that
ranged from 6 to 20 percent. And there were other, even more mysterious
billions inside of Alameda that no one knew about. “FTX is smaller than
people think, and Alameda is bigger,” said Ramnik. “Way bigger.”
It was never clear where Alameda Research stopped and FTX started.
Legally separate companies, they were both owned by the same person.
They occupied the same big room on the twenty- sixth floor of an office
building. They shared the same vista of the forest of high- rises surrounding
Victoria Harbor and, twenty miles beyond that, China. Sam’s desk was
positioned at one end of the identical long trading desks used by both
Alameda and FTX, with a clear view of both. It didn’t occur to anyone that
there was anything weird about Alameda covering the start- up costs of
somewhere between $5 million and $10 million for FTX. Ditto FTX selling
FTT and using the capital not to expand FTX but to trade inside Alameda. It
seemed perfectly natural for Alameda to control all the remaining FTT, and
use it as collateral in its trading activity. Sam didn’t even try to hide what he
was doing. FTT “has single- handedly fixed [Alameda’s] equity problem,”
he wrote, in a memo to employees. He retained 90 percent of Alameda
Research, with Gary owning the remaining 10 percent. Even after he’d sold
stakes in FTX to the one hundred fifty venture capitalists, Sam still owned


--- PAGE 146 ---

more than half the company. The third- largest shareholder, Nishad, owned a
mere 5 percent of the company.
At the same time, Sam sort of ran both and neither. Much of his day was
spent promoting FTX and himself to the outside world. And as FTX
boomed, he found it harder to find people of whom he approved to work for
Alameda. Qualified people might turn up looking for work at Alameda, but
the moment they saw FTX’s growth they would say that, no, actually,
they’d rather work for FTX. “It became almost impossible to find smart
people who wanted to work at Alameda,” he said. To manage the place, he
felt he was sort of stuck with the people already there.
He wasn’t able to run the day- to- day trading operations at Alameda and
also play this new and unfamiliar role as the face of the booming FTX
franchise. Seeing no single person inside of Alameda qualified to run it,
Sam handed the job to two people. The first was a clever but socially
awkward trader named Sam Trabucco whom he’d known since high school
math camp and hired away the year before from the high- frequency trading
firm Susquehanna. Right away Trabucco had established himself as the
only person who could rival Sam Bankman- Fried in his devotion to crypto
trading: he could go weeks without ever leaving the Hong Kong office. The
moment Sam promoted him, however, his interest in work collapsed and he
discovered a new taste for life’s pleasures. The shocking shift inside Sam
Trabucco in the late summer of 2021 was hard to explain but impossible to
deny. “The moment he became co- head of Alameda he checked out,” said
an Alameda employee.
That left Sam’s private hedge fund in the hands of its other co- CEO,
Caroline Ellison. When he’d named her to the job, Sam imagined Caroline
managing the people, while Sam Trabucco managed the trading risks.
“People really liked being managed by her,” he said. By the fall of 2021
Caroline was effectively managing both the people and the trading risk


--- PAGE 147 ---

while herself being managed only by Sam. This created some
complications. The two were now leading a secret life, and it bothered
Caroline a lot more than it did Sam. She wanted to improve and expand
their relationship; he wanted . . . well, not to. After he’d split for Hong
Kong, Sam had replied to Caroline’s first memo with a memo of his own,
laying out the pros and cons of a sexual relationship. It began with a
seriously compelling list, titled: ARGUMENTS AGAINST:
In a lot of ways I don’t really have a soul. This is a lot more obvious in some contexts than
others. But in the end there’s a pretty decent argument that my empathy is fake, my feelings are
fake, my facial reactions are fake. I don’t feel happiness. What’s the point in dating someone
who you physically can’t make happy?
I have a long history of getting bored and claustrophobic. This has the makings of a time when
I’m less worried about it than normal; but the baseline prior might be high enough that
nothing else matters.
I feel conflicted about what I want. Sometimes I really want to be with you. Sometimes I want to
stay at work for 60 hours straight and not think about anything else.
I’m worried about power dynamics between us.
This could destroy Alameda if it goes really poorly PR- wise.
This combos really badly with the current EA shitshow I’m supposed to be, in some ways,
adjudicating.
I make people sad. Even people who I inspire, I don’t really make happy. And people who I date
— it’s really harrowing. It really fucking sucks, to be with someone who (a) you can’t make
happy, (b) doesn’t really respect anyone else, (c) is constantly thinking really offensive things,
(d) doesn’t have time for you, and (e) wants to be alone half the time.
There are a lot of really fucked up things about dating an employee.
This list was followed by another, briefer list, titled “ARGUMENTS IN
FAVOR.”


--- PAGE 148 ---

I really fucking like you.
I really like talking to you. I feel a lot less worried about saying what’s on my mind to you than
to almost anyone else.
You share my most important interests.
You’re a good person.
I really like fucking you.
You’re smart and impressive.
You have good judgement and aren’t full of shit.
You appreciate a lot of me for who I am.
She’d still followed him from Berkeley to Hong Kong and reentered their
relationship. Two years later, its contours hadn’t changed. Sam was better
able to see the reasons why he might have feelings for Caroline than he was
to experience those feelings. Caroline wanted a conventional love with an
unconventional man. Sam wanted to do whatever at any given moment
offered the highest expected value, and his estimate of her expected value
seemed to peak right before they had sex and plummet immediately after.
Caroline didn’t like it and let him know, in a series of long, businesslike
memos. “There are things I want out of our relationship that I feel like I’m
not getting to the extent I want,” she wrote, in early July 2021. The usual
bullet points followed:
Communication about our feelings and preferences
Consistent affirmation/positive reinforcement
Social affirmation of our relationship in at least some context
Sam had a list in his head of all the bad things that might occur if people
knew they were sleeping together. Caroline thought that Sam’s list masked
his true motives. “I guess a lot of what bothers me is feeling like you’re


--- PAGE 149 ---

ashamed of me,” she added, six days later, in a follow- up memo, before
explaining how and why that bothered her.
I feel excited about people knowing we’re dating; in past relationships I definitely
haven’t always felt that way, and it came down to whether I was embarrassed by that
person, and whether I thought people would think worse/better of me for dating them.
If I felt you also felt positively about people knowing we were dating but just thought
it was a bad idea to share, I think I wouldn’t mind as much.
Again, I feel like if I were better/more impressive, you wouldn’t be embarrassed for
people to know we were dating.
Their deep interests remained unaligned. Caroline sensed that, even as
Sam promoted her to CEO of Alameda Research, he disapproved of her job
performance— and she shared his opinion. “It feels like I’m doing a much
worse job managing Alameda than you would if you were working on it
full- time,” she wrote, in a follow- up to the follow- up, “and I’m going to
fuck up important things if you don’t step in sometimes.”
Eighteen months earlier, Alameda Research had been limping along with
$40 million in capital from a handful of effective altruist friends. It now had
billions in it, much of it borrowed from strangers at pseudobanks, and a
stash of lesser- known cryptocurrencies, like FTT, worth between zero
dollars and $80 billion, depending on who was doing the counting. The job
had become more complicated. She clearly needed help. Once again she
was thinking aloud to her boss about either quitting her job or breaking up
with him, or both.
Before she could do either, Sam left again, in August 2021, on another
trip—to the Bahamas, to see if maybe it might serve as host to a satellite
office or a disaster recovery site if, say, the Chinese government shut them
down. He liked the place so much that, pretty much on the spot, he decided
to stay. For the second time in three years he messaged a group of people he
was meant to be leading to say he wouldn’t be coming back.


--- PAGE 150 ---

* That’s it for crypto explanations for the moment, as that’s about all that Sam Bankman- Fried knew
about crypto, or for that matter needed to know, to trade billions of dollars’ worth of it. Plus, so many
writers have taken a crack at explaining to a lay audience what a bitcoin is that it’s hard to see the
point of doing it all over again. See, for example, Matt Levine’s excellent forty- thousand- word article
in Bloomberg Businessweek, “The Crypto Story.” What is curious is how elusive Bitcoin is, as a thing
to understand. Bitcoin often gets explained but somehow never stays explained. You nod along and
think you are getting it but then wake up the next morning needing to hear the explanation all over
again.
† True at the time. The opposite of true now, as crypto sleuths have built the tools to exploit the fact
that every bitcoin transaction is preserved for all time on the blockchain.
‡ There was the other point of view to consider, of course— how these venture capitalists viewed this
odd new crypto entrepreneur. “I got on the phone with him,” recalled Nick Shalek, of Ribbit Capital.
“I asked him a question. And he talked for an hour. I asked him a second question, and he talked for
another hour.” Shalek was struck, as were many of the VCs, by Sam’s seeming artlessness. “He says
if he has a decision to make and the decision is a million- dollar decision, he’ll make it in five
seconds. If it’s a ten- million- dollar decision, he’ll take a few minutes, and if it’s a hundred- million- ‐
dollar decision, he’ll spend a couple of hours on it. And it’s like he’s serious? I’m thinking, God, you
can’t say that to a regulator, or a journalist . . . or anyone.” This artless workaholic was plotting to
take over the financial world— and had a plausible story about how he might do it. “For him to build
the business he was describing, it would be the largest global crypto exchange and then go beyond
that— to become the largest global financial institution,” said Shalek. He, like everyone else, quickly
saw that Sam didn’t resemble most of the entrepreneurs he’d dealt with. “He’s not a showman. He’s
not a salesman. He’s got a nonconventional way of thinking about building his organization.
Everything is probabilities, and he’d pull these probabilities out of thin air. And then he’d change
them. He’s sleeping on a beanbag. He’s doing all of this by himself. And he doesn’t seem particularly
interested in our opinion on anything. Which is fine. But we were like, He’s an unusual person. We
have to spend time with him in person.” But they couldn’t spend time with Sam in person. The Hong
Kong government had responded to the global pandemic by requiring anyone who entered the
country to quarantine in a hotel for fourteen days. Sam was understood and interpreted by his original
investors mostly via Zoom, and in the middle of one of the great venture capital booms in history.
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 151 ---

I
7
THE ORG CHART
t didn’t take a psychiatrist to see a pattern in Sam’s relationship with
Caroline, but there happened to be one sitting in the middle of it. His
name was George Lerner, and by late 2021 he might have been the world’s
leading authority on the inner life of effective altruists. The curious role had
just naturally opened up to him, in much the same way psychiatry had in the
first place. He’d been drawn to it by the instant intimacy it allowed him
with others. “Honestly, it’s kind of amazing to listen to other people’s
stories and get paid for it,” he said. In his first days at Baylor College of
Medicine, they’d asked students to raise their hands when their hoped- for
field was called. When they called for surgeons, lots of the students raised
their hands. When they called for psychiatrists, George’s was the only hand
in the air. He’d moved to San Francisco for his residency, at the University
of California, and remained to teach and build a practice.
George was born in Russia but moved with his family at the age of
eleven to California. He’d emerged from the experience a strange
combination of the two places. His eyes, his hair, his unchanging five- ‐
o’clock shadow: all were part of the same picture, which might have been


--- PAGE 152 ---

drawn by Dostoevsky. Everything about George was dark, except for his
smile. While the rest of him frowned, his mouth would express mirth and
even glee. It was as if California had gone to work on him to lift him out of
a bottomless despair and stopped before finishing the job. His patients, as a
result, could likely find in his demeanor whatever emotion they happened to
need at the time.
The first group were all lawyers; one lawyer had wandered in and
recommended him to another lawyer, and before George knew it he was
spending all day listening to lawyers’ problems. “The lawyers didn’t have
great boundaries,” said George. “They’d all send over colleagues.” The
lawyers wanted to talk mainly about their failed relationships, which got old
fast. But after the wave of lawyers came a second wave, of tech executives,
who were far more interested than the lawyers had been in talking about
their work. “The tech people didn’t talk much about their relationships,”
said George. “They wanted me to really coach them to be better engineers.”
The crypto people started turning up around 2017, the year crypto went
boom. They came in two basic flavors. First to come were the originalists,
who had been drawn to Bitcoin when it was still an old- time religion. “They
were, like, libertarians who have always worked on their own and who
didn’t fit well in big companies because of their views,” said George. “They
had a lot of complaints about people at work pushing onto them pro- ‐
government views. They’re a little paranoid. The world to them is a kind of
conspiracy.” George saw enough of these people to realize that it was no
accident that they wound up in crypto. “There was a dog whistle coming
out of Bitcoin that attracted these people,” he said. “They worked in some
regular company but on the side they had this interest. They wanted to talk
about how they are afraid of government. A lot of times their spouse or
their family didn’t want to hear about it anymore.”


--- PAGE 153 ---

They came to George because their bitcoin didn’t have ears and they
needed someone to listen. George was suited for the role, up to a point.
He’d always found it shockingly easy to occupy another person’s
intellectual point of view. “In some ways it really hurt me in residency,
because I couldn’t spot psychosis,” he said. “I’m like, I can totally see from
your point of view how you think your employers are listening to your
phone.”
The rise in the price of bitcoin ushered into George’s waiting room a
different type of crypto person. “The second crypto type is the person who
is young, hip, and wants to make money,” said George. This other crypto
type was less interesting to George. They were just worried the government
was going to tax their profits.
Then the effective altruists started showing up— and when they did,
George took a new and keener interest in his patients. Gabe Bankman- ‐
Fried, Sam’s younger brother, was the first, but hard on his heels came
Caroline Ellison and others from Alameda Research. By the time Sam
arrived, a year later, George was treating maybe twenty EAs. As a group,
they eased a worry George had about himself: the limits to his powers of
empathy. When ordinary people came to him with their ordinary feelings,
he often found himself faking an understanding. The EAs didn’t need his
empathy; the EAs thought that even they shouldn’t care about their feelings.
In their single- minded quest to maximize the utility of their lives, they were
seeking to minimize the effect of their feelings. “The way they put it to me
is that their emotions are getting in the way of their ability to reduce their
decisions to just numbers,” said George. “They’d ask: Should I have an
affair? Well, let’s run the cost- benefit analysis. EAs love that approach.”
This approach also suited George. He wasn’t able to feel his patients’
feelings. But he could feel their thoughts.


--- PAGE 154 ---

He would never be one of them— he was himself unsure if altruism
existed in human nature. But he adored them. It was fun, for starters, how
young they all were— just kids, really, starting out in life. “Initially it felt
like they were playing a game. They were all outliers in terms of their
intelligence and the way they approached the world.” Soon enough, he saw
that it wasn’t a game. They were all completely and utterly sincere. They
judged the morality of any action by its consequences and were living their
life to maximize those consequences. George accepted their premise, as he
had accepted the premises of the crypto guys who thought the government
was spying on them. “It wasn’t my job to challenge them,” he said. “They
were internally consistent, and if they’re internally consistent, I’m okay
with it. And, you know, maybe it’s a way of actually benefiting the world,
even if it is a little bit of a weird way.”
As a group, they were as likely to want to talk about their philosophy as
they were their personal issues, and these philosophical discussions were
more entertaining to George than anyone’s issues. But George heard about
the issues, too, and this allowed him to detect patterns in his new patients’
behavior. For example, they all professed to care about “humanity,” while at
the same time often being a bit slow to love actual people. “It doesn’t really
start with people,” said George. “It starts with suffering. It’s about
preventing suffering. They care about animals in the same way. They also
care about not having the earth blown up by an asteroid. But it’s not a
longing for a connection.”
They also cared about the logic underpinning their behavior; consistency
was, for them, not the hobgoblin of a little mind but the mark of a big one.
They brought logic and rigor to their most emotionally fraught decisions— ‐
for instance, the decision whether to have children. “A lot of EAs chose not
to have kids,” said George. “It’s because of the impact on their own lives.
They believe that having kids takes away from their ability to have impact


--- PAGE 155 ---

on the world.” After all, in the time it took to raise a child to become an
effective altruist, you could persuade some unknowably large number of
people who were not your children to become effective altruists. “It feels
selfish to have a kid. The EA argument for having a kid is that kid equals
happiness and happiness equals increased productivity. If they can get there
in their head, then maybe they have a kid.”
The fact that none of this came naturally to human beings— that they
had had to think their way into their way of life— was also important.
“There are two parts of being EA,” said George. “Part one is the focus on
consequences. Part two is the personal sacrifice.” On part one the EAs were
in general agreement; when it came to part two there were serious
differences among them. It was easy to talk the talk, but how far were you
willing to walk the walk, in your commitment to saving other people’s
lives? Would you give up kids? Would you donate a kidney? Sam
Bankman- Fried, George felt, lived on one end of the spectrum. Sam had an
almost weirdly low tolerance for physical pain and so passed on donating
his kidney. Otherwise, Sam was all in on the sacrifice.
Caroline Ellison wasn’t like that. She lacked confidence in herself. “She
was borrowing her ego from Sam because she lacked one,” said George.
“Sam gave her real inner strength.” In George’s EA patient population,
Caroline defined the other end of the spectrum of willingness to sacrifice
for her principles. When she’d first come to him, back in 2018, she’d had
two issues she wanted to talk about: her attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder and her new and emotionally complicated polyamorous lifestyle.
Every subsequent session after the first, Caroline came with just one issue
she wanted to discuss: Sam. She’d fallen in love with Sam, Sam didn’t love
her back, and that fact alone left her deeply unhappy. “I thought of her as an
exception,” said George. “I thought she might be willing to trade EA for
reciprocation of love any day.”


--- PAGE 156 ---

George didn’t really see it as his job to explain Sam to Caroline or to
dissuade her from her quest for his love. “If I was her friend— and not her
therapist— I would have said you’re never going to get what you want from
this guy.” It was still painful to listen to the steady drumbeat of her desire
for Sam to publicly acknowledge their relationship. After nearly two years
in Hong Kong, she’d let a few of their inner circle, their fellow EAs, know
about it. “That’s the highlight of the relationship for her,” said George. “It
was a big ask of him, and she seemed happy with that. It was an affirmation
of the relationship, and it showed some level of commitment. She never got
anything that big from him before.” After which Sam hopped on a plane to
the Bahamas and never returned. And then, just a few weeks later, called
George, and suggested that he move from San Francisco to the Bahamas
and serve as corporate psychiatrist to FTX.
After The Schism, and right before his flight to Hong Kong, Sam had been
in the market for a new therapist. Various former therapists had failed to be
useful, mainly because they could not bring themselves to believe that he
was who he was, and instead insisted that he must be someone else. “The
previous therapists were incredulous about various parts of me,” he said.
He’d explain, for example, what he thought of as his perfectly rational
decision made at a surprisingly young age to never have children. Or he’d
tell them of his absence of feeling, or how he had never felt pleasure. (They
had a term for it: anhedonia.) They’d sort of nod for a bit but then mistrust
his self- diagnosis. “It was like, what about me are you disputing?” said
Sam. “There was not any clear way to break through with them. I know that
there are things that are unusual about me. They wouldn’t just accept them
and move on.” Add to the list of people who failed to understand him his
therapists.


--- PAGE 157 ---

What he liked about George was that George simply took him as he was
— and actually didn’t seem all that interested in engaging in pointless
conversations about his feelings. Sam had long since decided that any
discussions about his inner life, and its consequences for others, were futile.
“The social stuff was basically unsolvable,” he said. He didn’t need a
therapist to deal with his problems— though he did need someone who
could prescribe his medications. The problems that interested Sam were
other people’s problems. He soon figured out that George could be
extremely useful with these. When, say, two employees were squabbling,
George could help Sam think through ways to resolve their dispute. To most
everyone else George was a shrink. For Sam, he became something like a
management consultant. (“Sam never wanted to talk about himself,” said
George. “All we ever talked about was business.”)
Caroline’s insistence on going public with her and Sam’s feelings for
each other would not have made it onto any official, or likely conscious, list
of the reasons Sam felt he’d be better off staying in the Bahamas than
returning to Hong Kong. In his mind there was not one reason for the move;
there were several. The Hong Kong government’s imposition of quarantines
of fourteen to twenty- one days for anyone entering the country made
foreign travel all but impossible. The Chinese government’s habit of
arresting the heads of any crypto exchanges they could get their hands on
and arbitrarily freezing their funds put everyone at FTX on edge. The
lawyers, and a few of the Chinese employees, bothered Sam constantly
about the risk. FTX employees had hatched an escape plan for Sam and
Gary—of which Sam was oblivious—to be carried out if the Chinese police
ever came for them. “The 007 plan,” they called it. There were two large
men guarding the front door of the office, a way out the back, and a fueled- ‐
up jet ready to take the two to safety at any moment. Still, scary as the
Chinese police might have been, they were, to Sam, less worrisome than


--- PAGE 158 ---

Caroline. “I feel bad dumping this on you now,” he wrote to her, not long
before he fled Hong Kong. Then he launched into his own business memo:
1. I really really don’t like people knowing we’re dating. The reasons are, basically:
a. It makes it really hard for me to manage well because of worries about bias
b. It’s potentially really bad PR
c. It makes me feel really uncomfortable
d. It makes people more uncomfortable at work around you
2. I was really unhappy with the conversation around it leaking at the office:
a. I understand you might like it if it leaks, but I don’t, and it’s a borderline
dealbreaker for me
b. I also think you are wrong to like it leaking; I think you’re forgetting the
second order effects here
3. This comes up in a lot of ways. Examples are:
a. If I go up to you specifically and say goodbye at a mass event we’re both at,
that’s not very subtle
b. Being indiscreet about finding ways to meet up (this is at least as much my
fault as yours)
c. Telling people
4. I’m pretty wary of ending up in traps where a relationship really bends my life in
shitty ways
5. Most of all—I really want to make you stronger, and I worry that in part I might be
doing the opposite.
a. I worry that the drive to impress me is too much on your mind.
i. You don’t have to; you already do.
b. I worry that fear of judgement from me makes you find some things really
aversive.
He ended with a single line: “I’m really sorry that I’m such a shitty person
to date.”
At any rate, by late summer 2021 the hard part wasn’t leaving Hong Kong.
It was figuring out where to go. It had to be somewhere with financial
regulation that explicitly allowed a crypto futures exchange. That ruled out
Europe and the United States. Taiwan was no good, as the Chinese might


--- PAGE 159 ---

invade at any moment. Antigua had good laws but bad internet. Uruguay
just felt weird. Dubai might have worked, but it would be hard on FTX’s
large and growing population of Chinese female employees, and Sam
bridled at the idea of the government telling people what they could and
could not wear. Singapore, Gibraltar, Israel . . . this list of places in which
FTX would be legal yielded a bunch of names that didn’t work for various
reasons. Oddly, the Bahamas hadn’t even made that initial list— but then
Ryan Salame visited to look for a vacation house to buy, and happened to
learn that the Securities Commission of The Bahamas was putting the
finishing touches on new crypto regulations.§ The Bahamas had great
internet, piped in by undersea cable from Florida. It had a neutral tax
system that gave you credit for taxes paid to other countries, empty office
space, and a truly wild number of empty luxury condominiums waiting to
be turned into worker housing. And it was sufficiently hungry for any kind
of business that when Sam landed to check out the place he found himself
meeting with the newly elected prime minister. “Sam, we’re broke,” the
prime minister confessed.
Sam wasn’t broke. Just then Sam was the opposite of broke. Alameda
Research was no longer paying loan shark interest rates to borrow tens of
millions of dollars from effective altruists. The new crypto lenders like
Celsius and Genesis were willing to hand Alameda Research collectively
between $10 billion and $15 billion at rates as low as 6 percent. The rate of
return inside Alameda was steadily declining, but with access to vast
amounts of cheap capital, its raw trading profits kept rising: from $50
million in 2018, to $100 million in 2019, to $1 billion in 2020 and again in
2021. And those were just the trading profits; the numbers didn’t include
the seemingly vast unrealized gains on Sam’s token stashes.
In March 2020, a Silicon Valley engineer named Anatoly Yakovenko
launched a new and better blockchain that offered a solution to maybe


--- PAGE 160 ---

Bitcoin’s biggest weakness as a means of exchange: it was way too slow.
Bitcoin could only validate seven transactions a second. The new Solana
blockchain promised to process up to sixty- five thousand transactions a
second. Sam had no independent ability to evaluate the thing, but he asked
people who did and soon decided that Solana might be the crypto of the
future. Even if it wasn’t, Solana’s story was good enough that other people
might see it that way and drive up the price of its token. Eighteen months
later, Alameda owned roughly 15 percent of all Solana tokens, most
purchased at twenty- five cents apiece. The market price of Solana had gone
as high as $249, a thousand- times increase on what Sam had paid for the
tokens, and the face value of Sam’s entire stash was roughly $12 billion. It
was hard to know the resale value of such a huge stake. But there was a real
market for Solana tokens. Two billion dollars’ worth of the things traded
each day. “I watched it in wonder,” said Sam.
Solana was a microcosm of everything else Sam touched at that moment.
It had a story that Sam amplified, by embracing the story. “It was the most
complete proof we ever found of the hypothesis that we could have an
insanely large edge on things like this,” he said. “It was self- fulfilling. The
fact that we took a big position was part of what caused it to go up.”
There was more like this in Sam’s dragon’s lair. Alameda had also
hoovered up about half the existing FTT tokens, for instance, creating, in
effect, a second stake in FTX for Sam, with a claim on about one- sixth of
all FTX’s revenues. In the past eighteen months, FTT’s price had risen from
roughly $3 to roughly $80. Again, it was hard to say how much Sam could
unload FTT for, had he tried to sell his stake all at once. But the crypto
lenders were happy to lend him billions of dollars against his FTT, so, to get
his hands on cash, he didn’t need to sell it.
Then there was Sam’s equity stake in FTX, which was very real indeed.
A large number of venture capitalists had paid $2.3 billion for a mere 6


--- PAGE 161 ---

percent of it. Sam had good reason to believe that he might now sell an
even smaller piece for several billion more to an even bigger group. FTX
underpinned his growing empire: a real business with booming revenues
and profits. It hadn’t even really needed venture capital. (As if to make the
point, Sam, having taken $200 million from Sequoia Capital in exchange
for a piece of FTX, turned around and invested $200 million from Alameda
Research in one of Sequoia’s funds.) FTX was now the world’s fastest- ‐
growing crypto exchange, and the casino of choice for big professional
traders. In less than three years, it had gone from 0 to 10 percent of all
crypto trading. In 2021, it would generate $1 billion in revenues.
And yet it still obviously had lots of room to grow. Its biggest rival,
Binance, had five times the trading volume of FTX, which meant that it
likely had roughly five times FTX’s revenues and five times FTX’s market
value. The experts who tried to determine the present value of rich people
had trouble putting a number on CZ’s. No one was sure how much of
Binance CZ actually owned. In 2021, Forbes had listed CZ’s wealth as less
than Sam’s, but neither Sam nor anyone else inside FTX believed the
numbers. Sam thought CZ might be the richest person in the world. And
CZ, to the people who supplied Sam with capital, seemed vulnerable. When
Forbes looked at Sam in the fall of 2021, they saw the richest person in the
world under the age of thirty. When the VCs looked at Sam, they saw the
guy who might very soon replace CZ as the richest person in the world,
period.
All of that explained what Sam was about to do at this moment— and
what would later feel a lot harder to explain or even to believe. He set out to
establish FTX as the world’s most regulated, most law- abiding, most rule- ‐
following crypto exchange. To acquire as many licenses to allow him to
operate legally and openly in as many countries as he could. To make a bet
on the rule of law shaping the lawless crypto markets. By the end of 2021,


--- PAGE 162 ---

16 percent of Americans claimed to have dabbled in crypto. Across Asia the
numbers were likely bigger. It was only a matter of time, Sam thought,
before regulators engaged with crypto and banished the unlicensed
exchanges.
The strategy was something like the opposite of Binance’s. When FTX
launched, in May 2019, Binance was merely one of a handful of crypto
exchanges with roughly the same market share, of roughly 10 percent. One
of those, BitMEX, soon ran afoul of the US Department of Justice, for
“willfully failing to establish, implement and maintain an anti- money
laundering program,” and its founders, two American and one British, were
variously fined, given probation, and placed under house arrest. Two other
exchanges, OKEx and Huobi, reportedly watched executives being hauled
off by the Chinese police, and saw their assets frozen. CZ had left China
three years earlier, in late 2017, before that year’s government crackdown,
one of several before and after. He’d landed first in Singapore but finally
settled in Dubai, which, among its charms, had no extradition treaty with
the United States. Which was useful, as CZ’s first response to new rules and
regulations was often to ignore them, and count on the regulators to lack the
nerve or the resources to take action.
That had been the smart thing to do, so far. In two years, Binance’s share
of crypto trading had boomed, from 10 percent to 50 percent. It offered
financial products that local regulators either had banned or had yet to
approve, and the regulators did not seem willing to do much about it.
Binance’s own exchange token, called BNB, was an example. BNB was to
Binance what FTT was to FTX: a claim on the revenues of the enterprise.
You could make a reasonable argument that bitcoin wasn’t a security and
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission had made it, and declared it a
commodity. There was no similar argument to make for BNB or FTT.
They’d been created and sold to investors to raise money for profit- making


--- PAGE 163 ---

enterprises. They paid dividends to their owners, in the form of lower fees
on the exchange and the buyback- and- burn agreements. There was no
definition of a security that they didn’t meet. If you tried to sell them to
American investors inside the United States, it was hard to imagine the
Securities and Exchange Commission simply turning a blind eye. And yet
Binance sold BNB— and much else— to Americans inside the United
States. In the immortal words texted by Binance’s chief compliance officer
to a colleague in 2018: “we are operating as a fking unlicensed securities
exchange in the USA bro.” (This and other similar morsels turned up in a
lawsuit filed by the SEC against Binance five years after the fact, in June
2023.)
In their willingness to court the wrath of US financial regulators, the
crypto exchanges fell into one of at least four categories. A small group of
tiny US exchanges listed only bitcoin and ether, the two oldest coins,
blessed by the SEC as commodities and openly regulated by the CFTC. (A
bit oddly, the older the coin, the more people thought of it as a commodity.)
FTX’s new US exchange listed those two coins, plus maybe eighteen other,
newer ones, none of which had the most obvious properties of a security.
None of them had buyback- and- burn features, for example, or were solely
intended to raise money for some for- profit enterprise. Coinbase, the
exchange that serviced the greatest number of US customers, appeared
willing to take more regulatory risk. It listed roughly five hundred coins,
including some that the SEC pretty clearly viewed as securities, and its
CEO, Brian Armstrong, took to Twitter to criticize the regulators for
“sketchy behavior.” Coinbase itself had no exchange token akin to FTT,
however, and so wasn’t in the most brazen position of using its exchange to
sell its own unregulated securities to US investors. Only Binance did that,
with BNB.


--- PAGE 164 ---

Selling what were in effect shares in itself to US retail investors on its
own new US crypto exchange, Binance lifted the biggest middle finger to
the US regulators. In the bargain, it juiced the value of BNB incredibly.
When Binance formally opened its US exchange, in September 2019, the
market cap of BNB was a bit shy of $3 billion. By the fall of 2021, it topped
$100 billion. How much of the rise was driven by demand from US
investors was hard to guess, but Sam guessed anyway: $20 billion. The ire
of US regulators seemed, by comparison, a small price to pay.
Which is why, when Sam took in the situation, he decided that Binance’s
strategy was unsustainable. That the smart thing to do was to be the world’s
most law- abiding and regulator- loving exchange. FTX could use the law,
and the regulators, to drive crypto trading from Binance and onto FTX. If
countries did not yet have the laws, a small army of FTX lawyers would
help them to create them. In the country that mattered most— the one
country whose financial regulators chased people outside of their borders,
and enforced its rules around the globe— Sam would personally take the
lead. He’d set out to persuade the United States government to regulate
crypto and punish those who violated the new rules, leaving FTX alone as a
kind of teacher’s pet of crypto. (Maybe the best thing about the Bahamas,
from Sam’s point of view, was how close it was to the United States.)
The US was now, in Sam’s mind, the holy grail. It had an incumbent
crypto exchange, Coinbase. But Coinbase’s CEO had already written
insulting tweets about the SEC. And Coinbase, compared to FTX, was a
boring and bloated casino. It had fifteen times the number of employees
FTX did, and only about a fifth of FTX’s volume. Charging retail investors
fees between five and fifty times what FTX charged, it was still running big
losses. Even so, it was a public company, with a market capitalization of
more than $75 billion. If FTX was granted a license to offer crypto futures


--- PAGE 165 ---

in the United States and was given full access to US investors, it might steal
Coinbase’s customers, along with its market cap. Or so Sam thought— ‐
which is why he also thought that the license might double or even triple
FTX’s value overnight.
Before he could do any of this, he needed to get rid of CZ. CZ still
owned the stake in FTX that he had bought in late 2019 for $80 million.
Relations between Binance and FTX had since deteriorated into simmering
resentment. Binance was the class bully, FTX the class nerd, and each took
pleasure in using its special powers to torment the other. The Binance
futures launch was a case in point. It had taken the Binance internal team
three months longer to create their crypto futures trading platform than it
had taken Gary, working by himself, to create FTX’s. Once it was up and
running, it attracted little interest. Or, rather, as Sam instantly noticed, what
trading there was in Binance’s new futures contract was fishy: instead of the
spasmodic flows of naturally occurring market activity, there was a regular
tick, tick, tick of trades. He guessed that Binance had created bots to trade
its new contract with itself, to create the illusion of activity.
Wash trading, as it was called, would have been illegal on a regulated US
exchange, though the sight of it did not bother Sam all that much. He
thought it was sort of funny just how brazenly many of the Asian exchanges
did it. In the summer of 2019, FTX created and published a daily analysis
of the activity on other exchanges. It estimated that 80 percent or more of
the volume on the second- and third-tier exchanges, and 30 percent of the
volume on the top few exchanges, was fake. Soon after FTX published its
first analysis of crypto trading activity, one exchange called and said, We’re
firing our wash trading team. Give us a week and the volumes will be real.
The top exchanges expressed relief, and gratitude for the analysis, as, until
then, lots of people assumed that far more than 30 percent of their volume
was fake.


--- PAGE 166 ---

Sam was less surprised that Binance was wash trading than by how badly
they were doing it. “They were doing a B- minus job at market
manipulation,” he said. One Binance bot would make a wide market in
Bitcoin futures, and another Binance bot would enter and lift its high offer.
If, to keep the numbers simple, the fair value of bitcoin was $100, the first
Binance bot would insert a bid at $98 and an offer at $102. No normal
trader would trade against either— why sell for $98 or buy for $102 on
Binance what you could buy or sell on some other exchange for $100? But
then, at regular and predictable intervals, the second Binance bot would
enter the market and buy at $102. It looked as if a trade had occurred
between two different parties, but it hadn’t. It was simply Binance buying
from Binance.
Sam loved this sort of thing: it was Jane Street trading all over again. In
response, he had his traders at Alameda Research build their own, faster
bots. Alameda’s bots inserted offers a tiny bit cheaper than the offers from
Binance bots. The Binance bot would offer to sell a Bitcoin future at $102,
and, moments before the second Binance bot showed up to buy, the
Alameda bot would leap in and offer it at $101.95. Instead of buying bitcoin
from itself at an inflated price, Binance was buying it from Alameda
Research at a price nearly as high.
Selling to Binance bots for $101.95 what they could buy elsewhere at
$100 was found money for Alameda. But then the futures team inside
Binance began to notice that their wash trading was losing money— and
complained to CZ. That they hadn’t told CZ the full story, or that they had
not fully grasped what had happened, was evident in CZ’s confusing
response:


--- PAGE 167 ---

“It was very Chinese not just calling me up and saying, ‘Hey, can you
stop?’ ” said Sam. After that he’d called Binance’s chief financial officer,
Wei Zhou. It was a weird conversation— the CEO of one crypto exchange
calling the CFO of another to inform him that, if he didn’t want to lose
money on his new futures contract, he’d need to improve his market
manipulation. Wei Zhou spoke to CZ, who called Sam for a brief though
not unfriendly chat, after which Sam concluded that CZ still had not been
told by his traders what had actually happened. Whatever he’d been told led


--- PAGE 168 ---

him to tweet a retraction that didn’t make much more sense than what he’d
originally written:
In the first eighteen months of FTX’s existence, there had been several
other dustups with Binance of this sort. CZ developed what three of his
employees at the time described as an obsession with his new rival. He’d
ask staff for regular reports about FTX, and speak of FTX in ways he would
not of the other exchanges. “CZ is super astute,” said one. “He’ll never talk
about any exchange. He thinks it’s free marketing. But FTX worried him.
From 2019 on, he only spoke of FTX. He thought FTX was the only real
threat to his position.” A threat in which he was, weirdly, the second-largest
shareholder, after Sam.
By the middle of 2021, Sam saw that he could not sweet- talk regulators
and at the same time have CZ as a big investor. If you wanted to be the
teacher’s pet, you couldn’t sit in the back of the classroom with the badass
in the leather jacket. The first thing every regulator asked for was a list of
your investors, and personal details about them. “They were asking CZ
what his family situation was and where he lives, and CZ didn’t want to
say,” said one former Binance employee. In the end, Sam told CZ that he
wanted to buy him out of his FTX shares. For the stake he’d paid $80
million to acquire, CZ demanded $2.2 billion. Sam agreed to pay it. Just


--- PAGE 169 ---

before they signed the deal, CZ insisted, for no particular reason, on an
extra $75 million. Sam paid that, too. Whatever gratitude CZ felt about his
two- billion- dollar windfall he hid. “From then it was a cold war,” said Sam.
The buyout of CZ occurred against a backdrop of the bigger public relations
assault. Sam was now a regular on television and had appeared on the cover
of Forbes magazine. He still had no idea how to create a brand, and, as
ever, zero interest in expert opinion about how to do it. He decided to figure
it out from scratch, by talking it over internally, hurling some money
around, and seeing what worked. With one hand he was handing CZ $2.275
billion; with the other he was writing memos to people inside FTX in which
he ruminated, as might a Martian, on what caused ordinary Americans to
like and trust a product. “We’re currently ahead in tech and favorability
ratings, and behind in name recognition,” he wrote. “We need to get 50m
low engagement users to decide to switch from Coinbase to FTX. This will
take a fairly forceful nudge!”
He began by noting how few marketing campaigns had had the effect that
he hoped to achieve with FTX’s. He counted only three:
1. Yes we can: Barack Obama
2. Just do it: Nike. Lots of athletes but there are two who made the brand what it is:
Michael Jordan and Tiger Woods
3. Think different: Apple. Albert Einstein, John Lennon, MLK, Muhammad Ali, Rosa
Parks, Gandhi, Alfred Hitchcock etc.
The crypto crowd was overwhelmingly young and male, and so it seemed
obvious to use sports celebrities to win their love and trust. But even within
the narrow world of sports, what people paid attention to struck Sam as
arbitrary. For example, in the United States, everyone knew and cared about
the names of the companies on their stadiums, but no one knew or cared
about the names of the companies on their players’ jerseys. There was no


--- PAGE 170 ---

rule of human behavior that made this so: in Europe everyone knew and
cared about the names on the players’ jerseys but not about the corporation
the stadium was named for. There was no moment at which Americans had
agreed on the importance of the stadium sponsors: it had just somehow
happened. “And once everyone agrees on what matters, it gets repeated,”
said Sam.
The initial general wariness of crypto money made it a bit trickier than it
otherwise would have been to buy the naming rights for a professional
sports arena. FTX tried and failed to sponsor the stadiums used by the
Kansas City Chiefs and the New Orleans Saints. And so when someone
from the Miami Heat reached out to them to suggest that FTX buy their
naming rights, for $155 million for the next nineteen years, Sam leapt at the
chance. That the deal required the approval not just of the NBA but also of
the Miami- Dade Board of County Commissioners, a government body, was
a bonus. After that, they could point to a government entity that had blessed
FTX.
Once their name was on an American stadium, no one turned down their
money.¶ They showered money across US pro sports: Shohei Ohtani and
Shaquille O’Neal and LeBron James became spokespeople. They paid
Major League Baseball $162.5 million to put the company name on every
umpire’s uniform. Having the FTX logo on the umpires’ uniforms, Sam
thought, was more useful than having it on the players’ uniforms. In
basically every TV shot of every Major League Baseball game, the viewer
saw the FTX patch. “The NBA put us through a vetting process,” said FTX
lawyer Dan Friedberg. “Major League Baseball just said okay!”
Still, the idea that a person might find a product more desirable simply
because some famous person lied and claimed that they used it struck Sam
as dubious. “If you’re buying something, do you really care what Baker
Mayfield or Dak Prescott think?” he wrote to the random collection of FTX


--- PAGE 171 ---

employees deputized to help him stew on the subject, as if no one had ever
thought about it before. “If I told you that Baker Mayfield really liked some
home insurance company, you’d probably update not at all.”
It wasn’t that celebrities didn’t make a difference but how unpredictable
were their effects: there was some mysterious interaction of person and
product that, very occasionally, penetrated the public imagination. “Kevin
Durant is a really good basketball player!” wrote Sam. “But you probably
don’t care which car he drives. But what if LeBron James drives a Tesla? I
mean, sure you’re probably not about to go out and get one, but I have to
say that it would probably make me slightly more likely to eventually.”
With some products, he decided, no celebrity could help. (“Could any
endorsement deal make you much more excited to buy a Nissan? I’m not
sure any could for me.”) With others, it was a matter of who exactly was
doing the endorsing. He came to see the problem as one of finding “one of
the few people or things in the world that really move our imagination.”
And of all the things they did to promote the brand, only three things really
mattered, he thought, and one mattered more than all the other things
combined: Tom Brady.
You would think— Sam had initially thought— that if you were going to
pay some NFL quarterback to stand up and say he used FTX, it would make
little difference whether it was Tom Brady or Aaron Rodgers or Dak
Prescott. You might see that Brady would be a bit better but think Rodgers’s
endorsement must be worth, say, half of Brady’s. But everywhere Sam
went, people mentioned that they had heard of FTX because of Brady.
Hardly anyone mentioned any of the other endorsers. “It was very clear
which things had an effect and which did not,” said Sam. “For the life of
me, I can’t figure out why this is. I still don’t know how to verbalize it.”
The Martian had discovered another weird but true fact of modern human
life: at any given moment there were only a few people inside the collective


--- PAGE 172 ---

imagination. “No one cares if Coinbase gets Russell Wilson as a
spokesperson after we get Brady,” Sam wrote in a memo to his team.*
From the outside, FTX appeared to be creating a brand around an oddly
charismatic and possibly self- absorbed leader. The truth was even stranger.
FTX was spending a fortune learning how to market a product on the fly,
without much input from anyone who had done it before. In one way, the
approach clearly worked: in the mind of the American consumer, FTX
became better and better known, and Sam Bankman- Fried became more
and more famous. In another, it made little sense: FTX didn’t really yet
have much use for the American consumer. They’d opened a small
exchange in the US on which American investors could do very little. The
exchange’s most important products, crypto futures, were illegal to sell to
Americans. They were spending a lot of money on a business that might or
might not happen.
Except for the psychiatrist, and a lawyer or two, there was still no one
inside FTX who had much experience doing whatever it was they were
doing, other than the experience they were gaining by doing it for FTX. No
one saw any reason to make an exception for the architects. On a bike trip
across the United States to raise money for a good cause, Ryan Salame had
met an architect in her late twenties named Alfia White. One thing led to
another, and before Alfia knew it, Ryan was asking her to design a vacation
home for him in Bali. After Sam surprised Ryan by calling for the whole
company to follow him to the Bahamas, Ryan scrambled for a place to put
it. Not finding anything suitable as a permanent home, he hired Alfia to
design FTX’s new corporate headquarters. Alfia had never done anything
like it.
She brought in a friend from architecture school named Ian Rosen field to
help. The curious thing about Ian, apart from the fact that he’d never


--- PAGE 173 ---

designed office buildings either, was that he’d been a high school classmate
of Sam’s. He was shocked to discover that not only was Sam Bankman- ‐
Fried now one of the world’s richest people, but he was also somehow
working together with, and even managing, other human beings. Ian still
had an image in his head of the brainiac no one knew chugging along by
himself with the wheels of his rolly backpack clattering across the Crystal
Springs Uplands School cobblestones.
Alfia and Ian traveled to the Bahamas, set themselves up inside an FTX
conference room, and tried to figure out what to do. Sam had handed Ryan
his checkbook and told him to buy office space and as much worker
housing as fast as possible without worrying about the cost. No man was
ever so good at not worrying about the cost as Ryan. In a matter of weeks,
he had snapped up between $250 and $300 million in real estate, including
$153 million worth of condos in an expensive new resort called Albany. To
serve as temporary headquarters, he’d acquired a depressing office park of a
dozen small buildings. They’d been planted on six acres of asphalt
surrounded by a dense foliage that a scientist or a real estate developer
would call a subtropical forest but which anyone stuck inside of it would
call a jungle.†
Along the way, Ryan had paid $4.5 million to acquire, as a site for a new
corporate headquarters, 4.95 acres of the jungle itself, on a narrow West
Bay beach. He handed the land and a budget of several hundred million
dollars to the young architects and basically said, “Have at it.” A project
that size normally called for a project manager and an owner’s
representative and assorted other wizened adults, but Ryan left the two
young architects to handle it all on their own. “We were supposed to design
a mini city,” said Ian.
Before they could design a space to accommodate FTX, they needed to
understand its structure and its rituals and its habits. To be FTX’s architects,


--- PAGE 174 ---

they’d also need to be FTX’s anthropologists. Ian hadn’t really known Sam
in high school; now he and Alfia tried to figure out this enterprise he’d
built. Sam himself, they soon realized, would be of no practical use. “Sam
has no time,” said Ian. “Sam delegates all this stuff to other people. From
the start we tried to engage him, but he didn’t engage. He said, ‘You’re the
architects, I don’t have any idea.’ ”
The mini city creators obviously had some questions needing answers.
For example: “How many people will occupy this city?” Or: “What does
Sam want his mini city to look like?” But Sam wasn’t interested in their
questions, and by the time they arrived neither was Ryan. Ryan had moved
back to the United States to help his new girlfriend run for Congress. The
architects found themselves handed off to Nishad Singh’s girlfriend, Claire
Watanabe— who had assumed Ryan’s role as spender of money and
manager of support staff in the Bahamas. “We said just give us a list of the
employees, give us anything,” said Ian. “Claire said, ‘I know it’s weird, but
we don’t have any of that— even the number of employees.’ ”
Lacking direction from above, the architects set out to observe FTX’s
employees in the makeshift jungle huts they now occupied. Every now and
then, they’d pull one of these incurious creatures aside to ask them how
they had used their old Hong Kong offices. “They kept saying, you don’t
need to interview us, just design it how you want to design it,” said Alfia.
That was obviously a dumb idea; even people who said they didn’t care
about the spaces they inhabited ended up caring, sometimes without
realizing that they did. “They don’t care what it looks like until they see it,”
said Alfia. There’d been a knock- down, drag- out argument in the old Hong
Kong office about the placement of a single door, for instance. “A woman
said it needed to be removed for feng shui, and a guy said no, he wanted it,
and the argument escalated,” said Ian. Eliminating the doorway in a Hong
Kong office building to satisfy one employee, and adding another to satisfy


--- PAGE 175 ---

another, had cost a million dollars. “It was the million- dollar door,” said
Ian.
The architects watched and listened and learned. They could see that
these FTX people, like their leader, essentially lived in the office. Sam
famously slept on the beanbag chair beside his desk in Hong Kong, but
Nishad, too, had made a bed under his desk. Ordinary employees who
thought that to be as successful as Sam was they must live as Sam did were
starving themselves of sleep and occupying the workspace in unhealthy
ways. One employee had gone thirty days without once leaving the Hong
Kong office. The office needed showers and sleep spaces; food, clothing,
and other material needs must be satisfied as efficiently as possible, to
minimize the downtime. “They get anything they want,” said Ian, “but it
gets delivered to their desk. The Amazon box storage room hardly gets
used.” That half the employees of the company were East Asian had to be
taken into account (everything would be subject to feng shui), but the off- ‐
the- charts nerd factor mattered even more. “What they want is power
outlets— all over the place,” said Alfia. If the building had windows, it must
also have good blinds, to prevent the glare from obscuring their computer
screens. “They love their shades down,” said Ian. They were either all alone
at their desks or all together in a big space, engaged in nerd recreations, and
seldom anything in between. They needed a big space for LARPing (live- ‐
action role- play) but told the architects that they could really do that
anywhere.
And they pretty much all shared, or said they shared, their boss’s utter
indifference to grace or beauty. “I’ve observed other tech employees, and
these people are different,” said Ian. “They care even less about aesthetics
and amenities.” The only sight that the FTX employees all wanted was of
their boss. Status in the company was measured by proximity to Sam. Even
from their jungle huts people jockeyed for a view of him. The architects


--- PAGE 176 ---

schemed the main building with glass walls and mezzanines that offered
unlikely interior views of Sam. “It gives you an opportunity to catch
glimpses of Sam no matter where you are sitting,” said Ian.
In their quest to understand this strange new company, the architects
nagged enough people that finally someone sent them a note with what
they’d asked for in the first place: a list of what Sam Bankman- Fried
wanted in his corporate mini city. “There were only three things on it,” said
Ian. Sam wanted the building shaped like an F, for the benefit of the people
in the planes descending into Lynden Pindling International Airport. He
wanted the side of the building to evoke his unruly hair. Unlikely as that
sounded, Ian thought that it was just possible— they could use CNC cut
aluminum to abstractly mimic what he was now calling “Sam’s Jewfro.” “It
wasn’t actually a bad idea,” said Ian.
The third and final item on the list of Sam’s desires was the tungsten
cube. The tungsten cube was a bit of a head- scratcher. The imaginations of
crypto people everywhere, it turned out, had been gripped by tungsten
cubes. Tungsten, the architects now learned, was the planet’s trendiest
dense metal. Crypto people were then memeing about “the intensity of the
density.” A company in the Midwest had supposedly created the world’s
biggest tungsten cube. A mere fourteen inches, it had cost a quarter of a
million dollars and weighed two thousand pounds. Sam had apparently
ordered up such a cube, flown it into the Bahamas, and wanted it displayed
on a plinth in his mini city. The architects never were shown Sam’s dense
and precious cube, but they nevertheless incorporated it into their drawings.
“We designed a space for it,” said Ian. That space was the big atrium in the
city’s main building. The tungsten cube would be the first thing a visitor to
the global crypto empire would see. Rising from the sea of abstraction, the
earth’s most concrete object.


--- PAGE 177 ---

Other than Sam’s list, the architects had no guidance. This puzzled the
architects, as the decisions they were making would be set in stone. These
were, after all, buildings. Once erected, they would be unresponsive to any
new thoughts Sam might have about their expected value. Twice inside of
three years, he’d moved his entire company nine thousand miles. Their mini
city was meant to serve as the headquarters for a global financial empire,
but the most likely way for FTX to become a global financial empire was
for the US regulators to give it permission to set up shop in the United
States. In which case Sam almost certainly would move the company to the
United States— and this mini city would be, at most, some satellite office.
“It has to feel comfortable if it’s for six hundred people or for ten people,”
said Ian delicately.
Instead of guidance, what the architects were given was a deadline. They
were to prepare the five acres of jungle, together with a slideshow of photos
of the imagined buildings, for a big public announcement. Incredibly, they
were ready for it when it happened, on April 25, 2022. They’d cleared the
jungle without a permit and sketched out their designs without help. Beside
the freshly shaven five- acre bald patch of jungle, they’d erected a billboard,
with a picture of the mini city and a slogan, FTX : GROWTH  IN  PROGRESS. The
Bahamas media assembled. The new prime minister arrived, with an
entourage. A big group of FTXers appeared, carrying shovels, likely for the
first time in their lives, with which to break ceremonial ground. And from a
car that also carried FTX’s COO, Constance Wang, Sam emerged, looking
as if he had fallen out of a dumpster: cargo shorts, wrinkled T- shirt, droopy
white socks. Same guy, thought Ian.
From the moment he had started on the project and begun to observe Sam
from afar, Ian had found the same thought often crossing his mind: how
shockingly just like he’d been in high school Sam still was. When the
oddball in your high school class became one of the richest people in the


--- PAGE 178 ---

world, you sort of assumed the oddball must have changed. Sam hadn’t
changed. The world around him had.
Before the groundbreaking ceremony, Sam was meant to give a speech.
Ian thought he might need some help, and so before the proceedings, he
pulled him aside.
What have you seen of the design? asked Ian.
I’ve seen nothing, said Sam.
Have you at least seen the plans?
Nope.
Huh, thought Ian. How would Sam give a speech about his new mini city
if he knew nothing about his new mini city?
What are you going to say?
I’ll just wing it, said Sam.
Which he did. By changing the subject. He did this a lot. Tossed a
question he didn’t want or know how to answer, Sam simply turned it into
one that he was happy to answer. The question he wanted to answer that day
was not “What is this mini city, and why does it look as it does?” It was
“Why did you come to the Bahamas?”
At some point the architects realized that Sam had no clue what they’d
designed, or that they’d designed anything at all. That they’d made all the
decisions about FTX’s new headquarters, projected to cost hundreds of
millions of dollars, without the slightest input from the person who was
paying for it. Soon they’d learn that even the list of Sam’s desires they’d
been given had not come from Sam— and that Sam himself wasn’t aware
that he had stated any desires. The list had been created by someone else
inside FTX who’d tried to imagine what perhaps he himself might want in
his new office buildings, were he Sam. Sam didn’t want his Jewfro on the
side of the building. This other person had just imagined that “Jewfro on the
side of the building” was the kind of thing Sam might find amusing. The


--- PAGE 179 ---

tungsten cube had been a cool idea, but, really, what were the odds that Sam
or anyone else bought and shipped into the Bahamas a one- ton cube? If the
cube existed, why hadn’t the architects ever seen it? “I don’t even know if it
was ever actually bought,” said Ian, of this thing he had designed a building
around. Only in the context of FTX was this not bizarre. “Everyone was
always making decisions for Sam,” said Ian.
At the end of the ceremony, Sam lingered a bit. Ian seized the moment to
finally ask him directly the question he’d been trying for months to ask.
What’s one thing you want out of these buildings, other than work?
For the first time, Sam thought about it. Badminton courts, he said.
That was it. That was all he wanted. Badminton courts.
How many courts? asked Ian.
Three, said Sam. Then he left.
“That was the first and only question we got to ask him,” said Ian.
It was, of course, George Lerner’s job to listen to people’s problems. Really,
he tried. By the spring of 2022, he’d set up his small office inside one of the
jungle huts. A simple desk, a red sofa across from it, and, in the corner, a
baby blue beanbag chair, which everyone understood was Sam’s spot.
George’s door was open to anyone who wanted to talk, but it wasn’t long
before he was weary of how many people wanted to talk to him, and why.
“There were a bunch of people unhappy in the Bahamas,” he said. The
Asian guys wanted more Asian women to date. The Asian women didn’t
like the Asian guys available. “Everyone is complaining about the lack of
dating opportunities,” said George. “Except the EAs. The EAs didn’t care.”
The non- EAs thought the EAs thought they were smarter than everybody
else. A lot of people were unhappy with Sam’s radically hands- off approach
to management. The Asians especially were confused by the lack of an
organization chart. A surprising number of people who were meant to report


--- PAGE 180 ---

directly to Sam had discovered how little Sam wanted to be reported to by
them. “There are a lot of people Sam would avoid,” said George. “People
thought they could use me to get to him. Other people talked to me because
they couldn’t talk to Sam. This was super annoying.”
The Bahamas hadn’t granted George a medical license. His title was
Senior Professional Coach. This was actually the role he’d always played
for Sam— who would inevitably prefer to talk through his business
problems rather than his psychological ones, which he viewed as intractable
and thus pointless to discuss. Now, in the Bahamas, George took to his new
role as management consultant. From employee therapy sessions he
absorbed information about the company whose CEO he was now advising.
Complaints from the employees suggested that Sam either wasn’t managing
the people he was meant to manage or was doing it so badly that he might
as well not be doing it. “I felt there were way too many people reporting to
Sam,” said George.
A few months into his new job, George had seen one hundred of FTX’s
three hundred something employees. He enjoyed maybe the single best
view of its corporate architecture, with a clarity not available to its
investors, its customers, its employees, and, possibly, the person who had
created it. “Sam didn’t like people to have job descriptions,” said George.
“Everyone knew that he hated org charts.” Everyone also knew that, as
much as they might long for an important- sounding title for themselves,
Sam hated those too. He had written a memo to explain why. “Thoughts On
Titles,” he called it. “In the past few years, we’ve found that titles can make
people substantially worse at FTX,” it began. Sam then listed some reasons
why this might be so:
a. Having a title makes people feel less willing to take advice from those without titles.
b. Having a title makes people less likely to put in the effort to learn how to do well at


--- PAGE 181 ---

the base- level jobs of people they’re managing. They end up trying to manage people
whose jobs they couldn’t do, and that always goes poorly.
c. Having titles can create significant conflicts between your ego and the company.
d. Having titles can piss off colleagues.
Be that as it may, George felt he needed to know where his patients stood
in the organization. “I didn’t understand the different relationships, and I
needed to, because a lot of people were coming to me with conflicts,” he
said. “I needed to see if what I was hearing made sense.” Sam had turned
his organization into a puzzle; his psychiatrist set out to solve it.
In the end, George drew up the only internal org chart ever made of
Sam’s sprawling creation. By the time he was done, he’d discovered many
interesting things. Twenty- four different people thought that they were
reporting directly to Sam, for example. The group included Sam’s father,
Joe, and Sam’s childhood friend Matt Nass, whose game, Storybook Brawl,
Sam had for some reason just bought. This group did not include the chief
financial officer, because FTX did not have a chief financial officer. There
was no chief risk officer or head of human resources, because they had none
of that, either. “It seems like a clubhouse more than a corporation,” said
George.
It did have a chief technology officer, Gary Wang, but Gary was socially
isolated, with no one reporting to him. “Gary was off in his own little box,”
said George. In an ordinary tech company, a bunch of programmers would
be reporting to the chief technology officer. In FTX they apparently all
reported to Nishad Singh. Ryan Salame, who had come and gone from the
Bahamas in a flash and now seemed hardly involved with the company, was
somehow the CEO of the entire international business, with twenty- seven
people reporting to him. Ramnik Arora, whose official title was still Head
of Product, clearly had nothing to do with product but sat on top of a small
pile of people in charge of both raising and investing vast sums of money.


--- PAGE 182 ---

George just put him in a little box marked “Ventures.” About half the entire
company reported to the first two young women Sam had hired upon his
arrival in Hong Kong, Constance Wang and Jen Chan. Most of those
people, George noted, were East Asian women.
Then there was Caroline Ellison. Caroline was apparently alone in charge
of the twenty- two traders and developers working inside Alameda
Research, about half of whom had followed Sam from Hong Kong to the
Bahamas. This surprised George a bit. “She never said anything about
Alameda,” said George. “Neither did Sam. This was clearly wanting not to
think about it.”
In a memo dated February 6, 2022, and titled “Thoughts,” Caroline had
listed half a dozen ideas to improve her relationship with Sam. “Couples
counselling with Lerner” was number three, in between “choose a point in
the future at which to decide whether to break up” and “resolve to
communicate better in the future.” By the time she’d followed Sam to the
Bahamas, their affair was going even more poorly than usual. On the night
of April 15— ten days before they broke ground on the new corporate
headquarters— they sat down to discuss their future. The next day, Caroline
summarized their discussion in a memo to Sam:
Caroline plan
I quit Alameda and move back to the United States
SBF plan
break up, stay friends, try to cause as little drama as possible
That night, they’d argued about the wisdom of her continuing to run
Sam’s private hedge fund- cum- dragon’s lair, as opposed to doing something
else with her life. “Running Alameda doesn’t feel like something I’m that
comparatively advantaged at or well suited to do,” she now wrote. “. . . I
feel like I need to do a ton of things I’m not very good at . . . But yeah, I


--- PAGE 183 ---

think it’s plausible that running Alameda is super high EV and way higher
than my next best option. I think I shouldn’t consider quitting Alameda
until I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about alternative options and their
EV.”
What Caroline would consider doing, and right away, was ceasing to
sleep with Sam. She didn’t want to move out of their bedroom in the $30
million penthouse condo purchased by Ryan that they now shared with
eight other effective altruists, including Nishad and Gary. It was Sam who
needed to move, furtively, into a lesser condo in the same compound. Inside
the company, hardly anyone other than the few EAs Caroline had shared the
secret of the relationship with had been aware that the CEOs of FTX and
Alameda Research were romantically involved. “People never see what
they’re not looking for,” said Sam. Now they didn’t see that the romance
had ended. Having hidden the relationship, Sam now hid that he’d broken it
off, along with the fact that he was living in a different place than everyone
assumed he was living. At that moment he was, in a funny way, making a
truth of two lies. As it happened, it was the moment before crypto prices
crashed. And also, oddly enough, the moment that I turned up to watch.
§ This is a footnote. And so it will feel on the page as it did at the time in real life: like a distraction
from the story. But there’s a backstory, and a person, you need to know about to grasp the spirit of the
enterprise and to understand what is to come. Back in the 1970s, the Bahamas had been slow to
create regulations for the insurance industry, and had lost out on a massive potential economic
opportunity when a booming reinsurance industry set itself up in Bermuda, whose regulators had
moved more quickly. By remaining entirely dependent on cruise ship tourism, the Bahamas had paid
a price and run a risk— which became a reality when Covid stopped all cruise ships and torpedoed
the economy. Back in 2015, a woman named Christina Rolle took over the job of chief financial
regulator: executive director of the Securities Commission of The Bahamas. Her defining trait was
her lack of self- importance. She was quiet and thoughtful and curious about the world— and aware
that financial services offered the Bahamas one of the few ways to expand its middle class. By late
2018, she’d heard enough PowerPoint talks from financial regulators at international conferences to
realize that everyone was avoiding dealing with crypto. She set out to do what US regulators have so
far not done: sit down and write the rules to legalize much of crypto finance. “The technology is not


--- PAGE 184 ---

going to go away,” she said. “And what is going to happen with it is going to disrupt financial
services in ways we cannot see.” She was aware of the risk: you write the regulation to allow some
financial activity, and you never know who is going to show up or what they will do. “We had no one
in mind, no one,” she said. “We didn’t know who was going to come. And I thought initially,
Bahamas being so small, no one is going to be recognizing it right away, but at least we’d be a player
in the market.” Then, out of the blue, in the late summer of 2021, the founder of the world’s hottest
crypto exchange had turned up and made Christina Rolle look like a genius. She remained wary. “My
fear is that I’ll wake up one morning and there will be a big headline that I didn’t see coming,” she
said, in early 2022. “Because there are so many people watching from the wings and waiting to say ‘I
told you so.’ There are a lot of crypto skeptics out there.” Hold that thought.
¶ Steph Curry had at first declined but then changed his mind. Much later, it would be reported that
Taylor Swift had turned down FTX’s money. That wasn’t quite true. FTX had an agreement with
Swift to pay her between $25 and $30 million a year, but Sam dragged his feet on the deal. “She
wanted to do it,” said Natalie Tien, “but Sam kept postponing on response to her team.” Another
person intimately involved with the negotiation between Swift and FTX said, “Taylor did not turn it
down. They were waiting for Sam to sign it when he didn’t.”
* There was a price to hiring Tom Brady, over and above the $55 million they paid him, but at the
time it seemed trivial: the bundled $19.8 million deal with Gisele Bündchen. With Gisele came a
celebrity campaign, complete with a fashion marketing consultant, who quickly spun up her own
ideas without a whole lot of supervision. It was through the consultant that, without Sam quite
understanding how it happened, he found himself on the Zoom call with Anna Wintour, trying to
figure out which Met the gala was in. Soon his face was plastered in fashion magazine spreads and at
bus stops around the country— after which he fired the fashion marketing consultant. “It was all part
of the celebrity deal with Gisele,” said Natalie Tien, who by then was running Sam’s media life.
“Very cringe. No one at FTX liked the idea, including Sam himself.”
† FTX also bought a fleet of maybe sixty vehicles. “I’d bought Sam a BMW,” said Ryan. “He made
me return it. I was like, ‘Sam you’re worth forty billion dollars. And these are bumpy roads.’ But
whatever.”
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 185 ---

ACT III
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 186 ---

O
8
THE DRAGON’S HOARD
ne of the first things I noticed about Sam Bankman- Fried was how
easy he was to steal from. On that early morning in late April of
2022, just about anyone could have walked right into his jungle hut and
taken whomever or whatever they wanted. The guard booth fronting FTX’s
temporary global headquarters was unmanned. The parking lot barrier gate
extended less than halfway across the entrance road and so was more an
idea of an obstacle than an actual one. The door to jungle hut number 27,
where Sam worked, was unlocked, and the receptionist’s desk was vacant.
I’d soon be asking Nishad Singh for the same premortem I’d ask of others
at the top of their psychiatrist’s org chart: “Imagine we’re in the future and
your company has collapsed: tell me how it happened.” “Someone kidnaps
Sam,” Nishad would reply immediately, before unspooling his recurring
nightmare of Sam’s lax attitude toward his personal safety leading to the
undoing of their empire. At that moment, it seemed reasonable that he
should worry more about this than about other risks. Sam was a famous and
easily trackable rich person who moved around without bodyguards while
in possession of billions of dollars’ worth of various cryptocurrencies,


--- PAGE 187 ---

which, while not all that useful as a means of exchange, made for excellent
ransom. “People with access to crypto are prime kidnap targets,” said
Nishad. “I cannot understand why it doesn’t happen more.”
The only tricky part would have been figuring out which hut Sam was in.
FTX’s headquarters now consisted of a dozen or so identical small single- ‐
story buildings painted tan, with dull metal roofs the color of milk
chocolate. Whoever had built them had started by giving up on the idea of
decoration, or charm of any sort. Nothing on the outside of any of them
indicated which might house the people worth kidnapping. Of course at this
hour, seven in the morning, that might not have mattered, as there were so
few people. There was a fair chance that Sam was the only human being in
any of the buildings, and so the hunter would only need to go from hut to
hut until he found his prey. Sam would be helpless. He wasn’t built to
escape, or even to notice, a physical threat.
However, he wasn’t there when I arrived. Nishad was, though he barely
looked up when I sat down beside him at Sam’s desk. A small mountain of
objects that covered the desk spilled out onto the beanbag chair beside it.
While Nishad typed away, I picked through the items and made an
inventory:
One giant canister of Morton salt
One iPhone box with new phone still inside it
One crumpled one- dollar bill
Four fidget spinners
One deck of playing cards
One pillow and one blanket
Two large half- opened cardboard boxes filled with Miami Heat jerseys
One box cutter
One open bottle of unscented mosquito repellent in a sealed plastic bag


--- PAGE 188 ---

Four manila folders containing confidential corporate documents
requiring Sam’s signature
One LiftMaster automatic garage door opener
A second new iPhone box with phone inside
One ceremonial medal, presented to Sam Bankman- Fried by Francis
Suarez, mayor of the city of Miami
A dozen square plastic boxes of unclear purpose inscribed with the
message FTX: Welcome to your new world of payments
Three pairs of chopsticks
One key card to a Ritz- Carlton hotel room
One handheld Gaiatop fan
One abnormal Rubik’s Cube, with all squares painted white
I was about halfway through the pile when Sam appeared. I had the
briefest sensation of being discovered by a teenager while taking in the
chaos they’d made in their bedroom. If he was curious how I’d gotten into
his office, or why I was now picking through the contents of his desk, he
didn’t show it. Something new was up.
If there was any rule governing Sam’s life, it was that it was never
allowed to bore him. “He’s like Kanye,” said a Sam watcher who also spent
time with Kanye West. “Wherever he goes, all this wild shit just happens.”
That day— the morning I turned up at his desk and took an inventory— wild
shit was happening. Elon Musk was buying Twitter and Sam had been on
the phone with one of Musk’s advisors, Igor Kurganov. Kurganov was a
Russian- born former professional poker player to whom Musk had
entrusted the task, it was reported, of giving away more than $5 billion
worth of his fortune. He was also a self- described effective altruist,
thickening the plot. He and Sam had just spoken of the possibility that Sam
might help to pay for the Twitter purchase. As it turned out, Sam had


--- PAGE 189 ---

already sunk $100 million into Twitter shares and entertained a private
fantasy of finding some way to buy the rest. Most of them he’d bought at
$33 a share, or $21.20 a share less than Musk had just agreed to pay for the
entire company.
When there was something new to buy, Sam often found it useful to talk
it over with Ramnik and Nishad. Both were smart, at least in the high- IQ
way that Sam understood. Both also had a curious ability to disagree with
Sam without making a big deal about it, or forcing him to feel that he
actually had to listen to whatever they said. After talking to them, Sam
could tell himself that he’d checked his judgment without having done so.
Now he grabbed them both and pulled them into what passed in the jungle
hut for a meeting room. It had a single chair and a sofa, upon which Sam
stretched, barefoot, a fidget spinner on his chest. Ramnik and Nishad sat
down on the floor, cross- legged. All three wore short pants, and in the
room, for a moment, it felt like nap time for a small class of restless first
graders. But then Sam explained what he wanted to talk about: Elon Musk
really was going to buy Twitter, but he didn’t really want to pay for it
himself. He was looking for allies to pick up some of the $44 billion it was
going to cost. They want us among them. But we only have three hours to
get back to them.
“What do you get out of this?” asked Nishad, reasonably.
“There’s some random shit,” said Sam, then made it clear that the most
important random shit was a new alliance with Elon Musk. Crypto lived on
Twitter, and Musk was Twitter’s loudest voice. With a single tweet, Musk
could trigger a stampede of crypto traders from Coinbase to FTX, or the
reverse. He also controlled the world’s biggest private fortune and, by
employing Igor Kurganov, was signaling a willingness to direct some of it
to EA causes.
“How much are we thinking?” asked Ramnik.


--- PAGE 190 ---

“Maybe a billion,” said Sam. An uneasy look crossed Ramnik’s face and
then vanished.
“But maybe as low as two hundred and fifty million,” said Sam. A
pittance. A mere extra $150 million on top of the $100 million worth of
Twitter stock they already owned, and which they could just roll into the
deal.
“Can we actually talk to Elon?’ asked Nishad. “Does it actually lead to
EA stuff?”
“He’s a weird dude,” said Sam. He stared at the ceiling. One hand
fidgeted with his spinner, the other twirled a tube of ChapStick. The wall
behind him was one big window. Outside, a small wan palm tree bent in the
wind. Beyond, on a field of asphalt, several young engineers paced and
counted their steps. “If he’s primarily wanting money, there are a lot of
people he could get it from,” said Sam. “He could syndicate it in a week.
It’s not the dollar amount. It’s about who has been nice to him and who
hasn’t.”
Down on the floor, Nishad looked dubious. Ramnik, beside him, was
harder to read.
“It will put us more on the map,” said Sam.
“Is there anything for which being even more on the map is useful right
now?” said Nishad.
Sam clearly thought so. Twitter fascinated him. It had turned out to be the
single best way for a person like him to communicate with a mass audience.
On Twitter, all the problems he had with people one- on- one evaporated.
“It’s moved markets five times more than anything else out there,” he said.
“It’s a very specific brand.”
“Would it be impolite to say seventy- five million?” asked Nishad.
“Twitter has two hundred thirty million daily active users,” said Ramnik.
“If you could get eighty million of them to pay for it— say, five bucks a


--- PAGE 191 ---

month— that’s four hundred million in revenues a month.” Ramnik did this
sometimes. He’d offer thoughts to buttress arguments Sam wanted to make,
even if Ramnik himself would rather he not make them.
“This is sort of a hilarious dynamic,” said Nishad, interrupting the new
train of thought. “Elon treating us as a proxy investment vehicle.”
They kicked the decision around only a bit longer. The entire discussion
took no more than fifteen minutes. At some point Sam simply decided
they’d spent time enough for every possible useful thought on the subject to
be had and asked for a vote from the other two.
“No,” said Nishad.
“No, or a very low amount,” said Ramnik.
With that, the meeting ended. What I did not realize— but both Nishad
and Ramnik by now both just took for granted— was that Sam might still
hand over some large sum of money to Elon Musk. He was perfectly
capable of asking for a vote and then ignoring the result. Sure enough, all
by himself, Sam would soon ask Morgan Stanley, which was advising on
and helping to finance Musk’s Twitter purchase, if they would be willing to
lend him a billion dollars to invest in Twitter and accept his shares in FTX
as collateral. He would also message one of Musk’s financial advisors to
say he’d be willing to invest $5 billion if Musk was willing to move Twitter
onto a blockchain. Twitter, like other social media platforms, was on an
island without any connection to the others; if you put them on blockchains,
they could all be linked up with each other. When Musk refused, Sam lost
interest and decided to invest nothing at all. Six months later, he wouldn’t
even know if he still owned $100 million worth of Twitter, or if the shares
had been sold to Elon Musk.
No one person had the full picture of the puzzle Sam had made out of
money. Ramnik likely had the clearest view of it, but even his view was
partial. Inside of three years, Sam would deploy roughly $5 billion on a


--- PAGE 192 ---

portfolio of three hundred separate investments— which worked out to a
new investment decision roughly every three days. If Sam spent only
twenty minutes or so deciding whether to sink a billion dollars into Twitter,
it was because twenty minutes was all he could spare: so many other
investment decisions awaited. He’d invest in new crypto tokens, like
Solana, and old companies, like Anthony Scaramucci’s investment firm,
SkyBridge. He’d acquire companies obviously relevant to FTX— a
Japanese crypto exchange called Liquid, for instance— and companies that
had no obvious connection to crypto, like the studio that had developed
Storybook Brawl. The money nearly always came not from FTX but from
Alameda Research, which Ramnik and everyone else thought of as Sam’s
private fund. Often Ramnik was intimately involved with a purchase, but
nearly as often he only learned what Sam had done after the fact. Sam had
invested $500 million in an artificial intelligence start- up called Anthropic,
apparently without bouncing the idea off anyone else. “I said to Sam after
he did it, ‘We don’t know a fucking thing about this company,’ ” said
Ramnik. About the same time that he was trying to decide whether to sink
more money into Twitter, Sam was handing $450 million to a former Jane
Street trader named Lily Zhang, to create a second crypto quant trading
fund based in the Bahamas, called Modulo Capital. So far as Ramnik could
see, Sam had told no one about that until he’d done it. Back in March, Sam
had promised to invest $5 billion with a Hollywood agent turned investment
manager named Michael Kives, without consulting Ramnik or anyone else.
Sam had only met Kives a few weeks before he’d made that commitment.
He’d known nothing about him, not even how to pronounce his name.
When they heard that Sam was about to hurl $5 billion at a total stranger,
Ramnik and others inside FTX became alarmed. With a lot of help from
FTX’s lawyers, Ramnik and Nishad had argued the $5 billion down to $500
million— or at least they thought that’s what Sam had agreed to. Much later,


--- PAGE 193 ---

Ramnik learned that Sam, as usual, simply did what he wanted to do, and
pledged to invest $3 billion in various Kives- run investment funds. “I think
Sam’s too trusting,” said Ramnik. “He’s too trusting too early.”
A lot of what got done inside Sam’s world got done without the usual
checks and balances. Others found it hard to complain too loudly. The deals
seemed to involve only Sam’s money: Why shouldn’t Sam be able to do
with it whatever he pleased? Still, there couldn’t be many other cases in
human history of a person his age tossing around dollars in the amounts he
was tossing them without much adult supervision, or the usual constraints
of corporate life. A board of directors, for instance. “It’s unclear if we even
have to have an actual board of directors,” said Sam, “but we get suspicious
glances if we don’t have one, so we have something with three people on
it.” When he said this to me, right after his Twitter meeting, he admitted he
couldn’t recall the names of the other two people. “I knew who they were
three months ago,” he said. “It might have changed. The main job
requirement is they don’t mind DocuSigning at three a.m. DocuSigning is
the main job.” Then there was the CFO. For the past eighteen months,
various venture capitalists whom Sam had permitted to invest in FTX had
been telling him that he should hire a serious grown- up to act as the
company’s chief financial officer. “There’s a functional religion around the
CFO,” said Sam. “I’ll ask them, ‘Why do I need one?’ Some people cannot
articulate a single thing the CFO is supposed to do. They’ll say ‘keep track
of the money,’ or ‘make projections.’ I’m like, What the fuck do you think I
do all day? You think I don’t know how much money we have?”
Back in Hong Kong, with The Schism still in mind, Sam had briefly
entertained the idea that it might be useful to have some older people
around. “We tried having some grown- ups, but they didn’t do anything,” he
said. “This was true for everyone over the age of forty- five. All they did
was worry. Here’s a classic grown- up thing: you freak the fuck out about a


--- PAGE 194 ---

Chinese government crackdown on crypto in Hong Kong. Their job was to
be serious about problems even if the problems were not serious. And they
weren’t able to identify serious problems. They were terrified of regulators.
Or taxes! Not that we wouldn’t pay it, but we’d pay too much, and then
we’d have a loss the next year, but we’d already paid our taxes.” It wasn’t
that Sam didn’t want to minimize his tax bill, or that the Chinese might not
at any moment swoop in and grab him and toss him in prison. It was that
the odds of the bad thing happening were low, and any time spent thinking
about it was wasted. “It was a random series of completely disassociated
concerns, most of which were really overblown, stated very forcefully,”
said Sam. “The only way to calm them down was for a new concern to
come along and distract them from the other ones.”
The truth was that grown- ups bored him. All they did was slow him
down.
A few months later, toward the end of July 2022, I met Sam beside the
tarmac of a private airfield in Northern California. I’d driven there from my
home; he had come from a brief retreat with the leaders of effective
altruism where they’d talked about how to spend Sam’s money. As usual,
he was late. When he finally arrived, he didn’t so much step as tumble out
of the back of a black car. Instead of a suitcase, he carried what appeared to
be a small pile of old laundry. As he drew closer, I saw that it was a blue
suit and a button- down Brooks Brothers shirt. “This is my DC suit,” he
said, almost apologetically. “Normally I leave it in DC.” Six hours in the
future he was meant to have dinner with Senate minority leader Mitch
McConnell, whom he’d never met. He’d been briefed that McConnell
would be offended if he arrived in shorts. “McConnell really cares about
what you wear,” said Sam, as he walked up the steps of the private plane
and plopped the suit ball onto a spare seat. “Also, you need to call him


--- PAGE 195 ---

‘Leader.’ Or ‘Leader McConnell’ or ‘Mister Leader.’ I rehearsed it to make
sure I didn’t fuck it up. Especially since it’s so tempting to say ‘Dear
Leader.’ ”
I eyed the ball of clothes. Its wrinkles were not new and shallow but old
and deep, reversible only with time and effort. It was hard to see how these
clothes would be of any use in this situation.
“Do you have a belt?” I asked.
“I do not have a belt,” he said, as he reached into a basket of vegan
snacks, grabbed a sack of popcorn, and dropped into his seat.
“Shoes?”
“Uh, no shoes,” he said.
It was as if he’d only received a single explicit instruction: “Bring a suit.”
Whoever had sent it had neglected to add, “Make sure it’s wearable and that
you have whatever else you need to satisfy Mitch McCon nell’s need for his
dinner companions to appear formally dressed,” and so Sam had not
bothered to consider what else might be needed for a suit if it were to be
successfully worn. He did this kind of thing a lot. Seven months earlier,
he’d testified about crypto regulation before the House Financial Services
Committee. Someone snapped a close- up of his feet under the table: the
laces of his new dress shoes were still swaddled and gathered off to one
side, as they come in the box. Someone must have handed him the shoes
and said, without further instruction, “You should put these on.”
At any rate, this one item set Sam’s trips to Washington, DC, apart from
all the other trips he took. Only to DC did he carry a suit: the stakes
justified the sacrifice. In recent decades, the laws in the United States had
been loosened so that people and even corporations could donate effectively
unlimited sums of money to political campaigns and super PACs, without
the larger American public being able to see exactly what they were doing,
or why. What surprised Sam, once he himself had unlimited sums of money,


--- PAGE 196 ---

was how slowly rich people and corporations had adapted to their new
political environment. The US government exerted massive influence on
virtually everything under the sun and maybe even a few things over it. In a
single four- year term, a president, working with Congress, directed roughly
$15 trillion in spending. And yet in 2016, the sum total of spending by all
candidates on races for the presidency and Congress came to a mere $6.5
billion. “It just seems like there isn’t enough money in politics,” said Sam.
“People are underdoing it. The weird thing is that Warren Buffett isn’t
giving two billion dollars a year.”
Inside United States politics, Sam was creating yet another money
puzzle: even after he’d poured billions into various venture capital
investments, he was willing to spend hundreds of millions more to
influence public policy. Later, everything he did would be reinterpreted
more cynically than it was in real time, but even in real time a lot of people
had their questions about him, and a lot of the questions missed the point.
His political spending was distributed sloppily into three buckets. The first,
and smallest, bucket contained his narrow business interests: a few million
dollars donated to politicians and interest groups willing to push for
legislation that would allow Americans to trade the crypto contracts on FTX
inside the United States that foreigners did on FTX outside of it. It struck
him as yet another strange and senseless feature of the grown- up world that
the United States, which was otherwise willing to subject its poorest and
most vulnerable citizens to state lotteries and casinos and other games of
chance in which the odds were stacked against them, made an exception for
securities, or anything that might be construed as securities. But those were
the rules of this new game, and Sam had decided, with some doubts about
their tractability, to try to change them— rather than do what the other
crypto exchanges were doing, which was simply to ignore them.


--- PAGE 197 ---

Oddly, the money he gave to people to make it easier for him to make
even more money was the easiest money for others to see. All of it without
a whole lot of trouble could be traced back to Sam, or FTX or crypto
interest groups. It was the other two buckets— the money that had little to
do with his own narrow financial interests— that were opaque. His attempts
to change the world as he thought the world needed to be changed had little
to do with his business. But to be effective, he had to hide what he was
doing, lest others assume that the point of giving was to shape crypto
legislation. In some not unreasonable minds, “crypto” was synonymous
with “criminal.” “The problem was that if it were disclosed, everyone
would assume that it was crypto money,” he said. Crypto money was harder
to give away than it should have been, in Sam’s opinion. Politicians and
interest groups didn’t always like the look of accepting it, even if they
weren’t quite sure what that look was. “There isn’t anything concrete
there,” said Sam. “They’re just uncomfortable.” Their discomfort could
lead to strange outcomes. “We had one group say, ‘You know, we really
appreciate this, but it wouldn’t be good for me to take money from FTX, so
I can’t— besides, I have found another source of funding.’ That other source
of funding was Gabe, my brother.”
In Sam’s mind, his money wasn’t crypto money. It was effective altruist
money that he happened to have obtained through crypto. Along with his
brother, Sam had looked at the world and decided that two EA- related
causes made more sense to address with his money than any of the others.
And that a lot of the money needed to be sneaky.
Their first, less sneaky initiative was pandemic prevention. On the list of
existential risks to humanity, pandemics occupied a special place. Unlike,
say, an asteroid strike, the threat felt real, and politicians could be persuaded
to take it seriously. Unlike, say, climate change, hardly anyone was talking


--- PAGE 198 ---

or thinking seriously about how to address the problem— even after a
million Americans had just died from a new pathogen. Unlike, say,
preventing a war on humanity by artificial intelligence, there were some
obvious though expensive things to do to mitigate the risk. For instance,
someone really did need to take the lead in the creation of a global system
of disease prediction, one that resembled the global system of weather
prediction. Sam guessed that it would take $100 billion, which put it
beyond his reach. “If it were ten times smaller, it’s possible I could just do it
myself,” he said. “If FTX winds up six times bigger than we are today, we’d
have to recompute that.” He might not have the money right now to do it
himself, but he did have the money to persuade the US government to do it.
This very issue was the stated, though not perhaps the biggest, reason for
his dinner with Mitch McConnell: to discuss an initiative to allocate $10
billion for pandemic response to an entity inside the Department of Health
and Human Services called the Biomedical Advanced Research and
Development Authority. McConnell was a Republican and in theory hostile
to big government expenditures. But Sam had already decided that these
politicians were far more complex devices than their tribal identities might
suggest. “He’s a polio survivor,” said Sam. “And we think he’s interested.”
Badgering elected officials into taking an interest in pandemics was one
part of Sam’s strategy. The second part was getting some new pandemic
warriors elected to Congress. Sam’s political operation had figured out, or
thought they had, that it made a lot more sense to spend money in primary
than in general elections. Voters could be swayed in primaries as they
couldn’t in generals. Much of persuasion in primaries was just name
recognition, which you could buy with ads. They’d also already figured out,
or thought they had, that a million dollars dropped into a close
congressional primary gave them a one- in- five chance of swinging it to
their candidate. The problem was that they had no way to determine in


--- PAGE 199 ---

advance which of the five they’d be able to influence. And so they’d
adopted a strategy of finding as many congressional candidates as they
could who would support spending on pandemic prevention and buying
their elections in bulk, while at the same time doing their best to disguise
that the money involved had anything to do with crypto.
Of course, winning one out of five congressional races meant you lost the
other four. Sam’s political portfolio resembled his venture capital portfolio:
in pursuit of crazy rewards, it took what, after the fact, looked like insane
risks. In a very short time, Sam’s money had bankrolled some of the most
spectacular failures in the history of political manipulation.
Carrick Flynn, for example. When Sam stumbled upon him, Carrick
Flynn was a newcomer to elective politics. He was the quintessential
Washington, DC, policy wonk— one of the faceless minions in blue suits
who sit along the wall behind the more important people and occasionally
rise and whisper something in their ears. Carrick Flynn’s most important
trait, in Sam’s view, was his total command of and commitment to
pandemic prevention. His second-most important trait was that he was an
effective altruist. He could be counted on to follow the math rather than
woolly- minded feelings. Conveniently, he had recently moved from DC to a
newly created left- leaning congressional district outside Portland, Oregon.
The seat felt so up for grabs that fifteen other candidates would eventually
jump into the race. Flynn asked some fellow EAs what they thought about
him running for Congress. As a political candidate he had obvious
weaknesses: in addition to being a Washington insider and a bit of a
carpetbagger, he was terrified of public speaking and sensitive to criticism.
He described himself as “very introverted.” And yet none of the EAs could
see any good reason for him not to go for it— and so he’d thrown his hat
into the ring. Somewhere along the EA trail he’d become known to Sam.
He had a sense that Sam might support him, but he had no idea what that


--- PAGE 200 ---

meant. The writer Dave Weigel captured the moment he learned, in the
opening of an article in the Washington Post:
“We were watching a YouTube video together, a tutorial about something,” said Flynn, sitting
with his wife, Kathryn Mecrow- Flynn, after a U.S. Chamber of Commerce breakfast last
week, where he and other Democratic congressional candidates heard a presentation on
suburban crime.
“All of a sudden, we hear a voice say CARRICK FLYNN!” remembered Mecrow- Flynn.
“And I had water in my hand,” said Flynn.
Mecrow- Flynn corrected him. “Mountain Dew,” she said.
“It would have been Diet Mountain Dew,” Flynn said, more confidently.
Whatever he was drinking, Flynn had, at the sound of his own name in a
paid political advertisement, spilled it all over himself. It was the first
fusillade in the political equivalent of the D- Day invasion. Sam’s political
team took ten million dollars of Sam’s money, jammed it into bazookas,
and fired it into the Portland suburbs. This little primary became the most
expensive in Oregon history. Then it became the third most expensive
House Democratic primary in the entire country. Sam’s attempt to turn
Carrick Flynn into a congressman was less a political campaign than an
assault on the senses of the local population. “Being in it really did feel like
being in an episode of Veep,” said Tess Seger, who ran the campaign of a
rival Democrat. “The people who report on the Trail Blazers were literally
complaining how many Carrick Flynn ads there were. The whole thing was
kind of done unartfully.”
The effects of artlessness in politics are not predictable, but what
happened next made a kind of sense. People figured out where the money
was coming from to buy all these Carrick Flynn ads. The other eight
Democrats in the primary joined hands to denounce Carrick Flynn. “Mr.
Creepy Funds,” one of them called him. “This is a Bahamas billionaire
trying to buy a congressional district in Oregon,” said another. And it was!


--- PAGE 201 ---

Sam was trying to buy a seat in Congress so that Congress might finally
begin to address an existential risk to humanity. The people of Oregon not
only did not appreciate the effort; a lot of them started to kind of hate
Carrick Flynn. And Carrick Flynn was not designed to ignore their feelings.
Attacked by other candidates during a debate, he simply walked out in the
middle. His public statements began to strike even his financial backers as
erratic and unwise. “He got really wounded when people said mean things
about him,” said Sam. “He insulted owls at one point, not realizing that
there’s a huge owl constituency in Oregon.”‡
In the end, which came on May 17, 2022, Carrick Flynn received 19
percent of the popular vote and finished a respectable but distant second to
Andrea Salinas, who won with 37 percent of the vote. For every vote
Carrick Flynn won, Sam had spent just a bit less than a thousand dollars. He
actually didn’t mind all that much. He’d learned a lesson: there were
political candidates no amount of money could get elected. “There are
limits to what money can buy,” said Sam.
Anyway, to Sam, the money he’d spent on Carrick Flynn had been a drop
in his second bucket. Other congressional races had worked out better. He
also had one other and even more promising bucket— a vessel for political
spending that was yet harder to see into than the other two. So that voters
would not know where the money had come from, this bucket would be
largely controlled by Mitch McConnell, or friends of Mitch McConnell. So
that the disguise would be legal, Sam and McConnell would not talk about
how the bucket would be used. But the bucket was very much the subtext of
the dinner Sam was headed to, because in McConnell, Sam had found
someone as interested as he was in another existential threat to humanity:
Donald Trump. Trump’s assault on the government, and on the integrity of
US elections, belonged, to Sam’s way of thinking, on the same list as
pandemics and artificial intelligence and climate change. Across the land,


--- PAGE 202 ---

Republican primaries were littered with candidates who were willing to
behave as if the presidential election had been stolen from Trump. They
faced candidates who were forced to pay lip service to the idea.
McConnell’s people had already figured out which was which, and
McConnell was intent on defeating the former. “He’s already done the
work,” said Sam. The work, he added, was to distinguish “people who
would actually try to govern versus people who would undermine the
government.”
At that moment, Sam was planning to give $15– $30 million to
McConnell to defeat the Trumpier candidates in the US Senate races. On a
separate front, he explained to me, as the plane descended into Washington,
DC, he was exploring the legality of paying Donald Trump himself not to
run for president. His team had somehow created a back channel into the
Trump operation and returned with the not terribly earth- shattering news
that Donald Trump might indeed have his price: $5 billion. Or so Sam was
told by his team.
It was interesting, especially in retrospect, how well suited Sam’s mind
was to understanding Donald Trump. At that moment, his team was using
their mysterious line of communication into the Trump camp to seed
Trump’s mind with an idea. In Missouri, a rabid Trumper named Eric
Greitens was in what looked like a close race with a less enthusiastic
Trumper named Eric Schmitt. Schmitt wanted to govern; Greitens wanted
to tear things down. Trump had not yet weighed in on the race, and the fear
was that his endorsement might swing the election to Greitens. Sam’s team
had come up with an idea— which, Sam claimed, was just then making its
way to Trump himself. The idea was to persuade Trump to come out and
say “I’m for Eric!” without specifying which Eric he was for. After all,
Trump didn’t actually care who won. All he cared about was that he would
be seen to have backed the winner. If he said he was for Eric, he’d get the


--- PAGE 203 ---

credit for whichever Eric won. “I’m for Eric!” would attract even more
attention to Trump than a more specific endorsement, and the attention is all
Trump cared about in the end. “It’s very Trump,” said Sam. “It’d become a
meme.”
As he said that, he tossed popcorn in his mouth, in a herky- jerky motion
that resembled a clumsy layup. He was shooting around 60 percent, and the
popcorn was flying everywhere. He’d failed to catch a dish of warm nuts as
they’d hurtled past him during takeoff, and they too were still scattered all
around him. As he’d ordered the political world in his mind, he’d created
chaos in the space he inhabited. Finally we landed, and he ran to his dinner,
leaving the mess for someone else to clean up.
We’d agreed to meet the morning after next at the town house on the back
side of Capitol Hill that served as the headquarters for Guarding Against
Pandemics, the organization that Sam paid for and which Gabe ran. Once
again he was late. Once again he tumbled out of the back of a car, this time
a regular DC taxicab. And once again he had in his hands a balled- up suit
— but this time, as he emerged from the car, a single brown dress shoe fell
out of the pile in his hands and into the street. As he reached to grab it, the
other shoe dropped and rolled under the taxi. It was then that I noticed that
the suit’s color had changed: someone had taken the wrinkled suit he’d
arrived carrying and replaced it with another, pressed one, reduced now to
laundry. I watched as Sam entered the empty town house, opened a closet,
and, without so much as a glance at the row of empty hangers, tossed the
ball of clothes onto the closet floor. We then drove together to the airport
and returned to the Bahamas.
Two days later Trump announced, in a post on Truth Social, his intention
to name his choice in the Missouri Senate race. Next, he released a written
statement: “ERIC has my Complete and Total Endorsement!”§


--- PAGE 204 ---

The sun was setting on the Albany resort when the effective altruists
gathered to discuss how they might give their money away. Like rich people
dressed up for a formal occasion, the buildings surrounding the marina
looked their best when the light was lowered. In midday sun they were just
seven crass blindingly white monstrosities barely distinguishable from one
another. Only after sunset, when they became unnaturally lit, did their
names make any sense. The facade of a building named Honeycomb
became a stack of wax hexagons. The one called Cube revealed itself to be
a beguilingly uneven jumble of rectangles. Orchid— the building closest to
the ocean, the one with the most sweeping views— was more subtle. It
looked nothing like an orchid in any light, but its exterior was wrapped with
an aluminum sheath whose pattern was meant to call to mind the tropical
flower— in the same way that the planned exterior of FTX’s new
headquarters was supposed to evoke Sam’s Jewfro. At night its penthouse
was lit purple, and the purple light made it seem glamorous, and elicited
envy even from those accustomed to being envied. That’s where the
effective altruists all lived, at least until Caroline booted Sam out. Gary,
Nishad, Caroline, and Sam’s best friend from college, Adam Yedidia, slept
in more or less identical bedrooms, all but Caroline with their romantic
partners.
The interior of Orchid’s penthouse contained even more stuff to be
impressed by, if you were the sort of person impressed by stuff. Eleven
thousand five hundred square feet of marble floors had been tricked out
with enough luxury to persuade any normal rich person who lived inside it
that whatever sacrifice he’d made to acquire such a thing surely was worth
it. The problem was that the rich people inside were not normal. The
effective altruists had already half ruined the splendor. One wall was now
obscured by a row of computer monitors whose cords snaked across the
marble like jungle vines. A cheap Ikea- like bookshelf groaned under the


--- PAGE 205 ---

weight of the EAs’ favorite board games: Galaxy Trucker, Wingspan, 7
Wonders, more than one chess set. The living room had been surrendered to
a massive video game monitor. Alongside the various crystal and silver
tchotchkes that had obviously come with the place, the effective altruists
had deposited, without rhyme or reason, a lot of random crap they’d been
too lazy to chuck: books their authors had given Sam that he’d never read, a
football that Shaquille O’Neal had signed and given to Sam, fan gear sent
by various professional sports leagues. In effect, they’d turned a $30 million
condominium into a flophouse. From their wraparound sixth- floor balcony
they had a view to die for, and yet they seldom so much as glanced at it.
Just below was a semi- private beach so close that from their balcony Tom
Brady could have thrown Shaq’s football onto it. A year into his new life in
the Bahamas, Nishad Singh had stepped onto that beach just once, and then
only because some relatives were visiting. That was once more than Sam,
and likely Gary too.
Caroline appeared with a glass of wine, which here counted as an act of
hedonism, and the meeting began. From the moneymaking division of FTX,
it was just her, Sam, Gary, and Nishad; from the money- giving side were
the four employees who worked for FTX’s philanthropic wing. They shared
their employer’s habit of turning life decisions into expected value
calculations, and their inner math yielded similarly surprising results. In
2020, Avital Balwit had won a Rhodes Scholarship and turned it down, first
to run Carrick Flynn’s congressional campaign and then to give away
FTX’s money. Leopold Aschenbrenner, who had entered Columbia
University at the age of fifteen and graduated four years later as class
valedictorian, had just declined a spot at Yale Law School to work for this
new philanthropy. Their boss, a former Oxford philosopher named Nick
Beckstead, was also present, as was their spiritual guru, Will MacAskill— ‐


--- PAGE 206 ---

who was of course in some way responsible for everyone, including Sam,
even being there.
Since MacAskill had first sold Sam, back in the fall of 2012, on the idea
of earning to give, the EA movement had obviously changed. It had become
a lot less interested in saving the lives of existing human beings than future
ones. In early 2020, movement cofounder Toby Ord had published a book,
The Precipice, which laid out where his thinking (and that of everyone in
the penthouse) had been for a while now. In it he offered up rough estimates
of the likelihood of various existential risks to humanity. The chance of a
stellar explosion he put at one in a billion, and an asteroid strike at one in a
million. The man- made risks of nuclear bombs and climate change had a
one in a thousand chance of wiping out the entire species. A man- made
pathogen— as opposed to a naturally arising disease— he gave a one in
thirty chance. The most likely threat to humanity, Ord argued, was runaway
artificial intelligence. He put the odds of AI ending life as we know it at one
in ten. “If it happens, it wipes us all out,” explained Sam. “Where with
biological risk, even if it gets really bad, I dunno, it doesn’t have the
intelligence to weed out the stragglers the way AI could.”
One response to these sorts of calculations is that they are a kind of
gonzo science fiction. No one actually knows what the odds of any of these
things are, and your willingness to make up some numbers should render
you less, not more, credible on the subject. And yet . . . there clearly is some
chance that all of these terrible things might occur. And if there is some
chance, how can you not try to figure out what that chance might be? You
are free to quibble about the specific odds. Once you’re in the argument,
however, you’ll find it difficult to escape a certain logic: the expected value
of reducing even the minuscule likelihood of an existential threat to all
future human beings is far greater than the expected value of anything you
might do to save the lives of the people who currently happen to be alive.


--- PAGE 207 ---

“The core argument was like, look, the future is vast,” said Sam. “You can
try to put a number on it but obviously anything that flows through to that is
going to have a vast multiplier.”
One day some historian of effective altruism will marvel at how easily it
transformed itself. It turned its back on living people without bloodshed or
even, really, much shouting. You might think that people who had sacrificed
fame and fortune to save poor children in Africa would rebel at the idea of
moving on from poor children in Africa to future children in another galaxy.
They didn’t, not really— which tells you something about the role of
ordinary human feeling in the movement. It didn’t matter. What mattered
was the math. Effective altruism never got its emotional charge from the
places that charged ordinary philanthropy. It was always fueled by a cool
lust for the most logical way to lead a good life.
At any rate, the people sitting around Sam’s living room and talking
about where Sam’s money was being spent weren’t talking about buying
bed nets for children in Africa, to prevent malaria. They were looking for
clever ways to reduce existential risk. The sums they were able to give
away were about to increase dramatically— or so they all imagined. After
handing out $30 million in 2021, they were on pace to hand out $300
million in 2022, and then $1 billion in 2023. As Nishad had put it to me not
long before, “We’re finally going to stop talking about doing good and start
doing it.”
The list of things they had just done or were about to do was— well, soon
it would be entirely irrelevant. But in retrospect it would be interesting for
other reasons. They spoke for some time about proposals they had received
and might fund. For instance, a Stanford economist hoped to start a new
university focused exclusively on artificial intelligence and biotech and
recruit as part of its student population young people from lower-  and
middle- income families in developing countries. An engineer at a think tank


--- PAGE 208 ---

that specialized in catastrophic risk wanted to launch a communications
satellite that would serve as a backup channel for emergency services if 911
ever went down. An outfit called the Apollo Academic Surveys, using FTX
money, had created a mechanism to quickly determine what expert
consensus was on any topic. Oddly, only economics had such a tool. The
first question they put to it was how likely it was for the earth to be
destroyed by an asteroid. Not that likely, as it turned out. “One less thing to
worry about,” said Avital.
They’d been doing this for only a year and already had been pitched
nearly two thousand such projects. They’d handed out some money but in
the process they’d concluded that conventional philanthropy was kind of
dumb. Just to deal with the incoming requests— most of which they had no
ability to evaluate— would require a big staff and lots of expense. Much of
their money would end up being used on a vast bureaucracy. And so they
had just recently adopted a new approach: instead of giving money away
themselves, they scoured the world for subject matter experts who might
have their own, better ideas for how to give away money. Over the previous
six months, one hundred people with deep knowledge of pandemic
prevention and artificial intelligence had received an email from FTX that
said, in effect: Hey, you don’t know us, but here’s a million dollars, no
strings attached. Your job is to give it away as effectively as you can. The
FTX Foundation, started in early 2021, would track what these people did
with their million dollars, but only to determine if they should be given
even more. “We try not to be very judgy once they have the money,” said
Sam. “But maybe we won’t be reupping them.” The hope was, first, that
these people on the ground would know better than anyone what to do with
the money and, second, that some people might actually have a genius for
giving away money. “It’s trying to blast through the hesitation,” said Sam.
“The default to inaction.”


--- PAGE 209 ---

The effective altruists finished their first meeting at midnight, then
returned the next night and talked until one in the morning. Nishad and Sam
talked some, Caroline sipped wine and talked less, Gary said nothing at all.
They were moving fast, as Sam always did. “If you throw away a quarter of
the money, that’s very sad,” he said at one point, “but if it allows you to
triple the effectiveness of the rest, that’s a win.”
Here was yet another game. The game was for him and Nishad and Gary
and Caroline to generate hundreds of billions of dollars and use it to reduce
the likelihood of the grand experiment coming to an end. Like all the games
Sam loved, this game was played on a clock. He’d somehow decided that
the odds were low that he, or really most people, would do anything
important after about the age of forty. If he didn’t sleep, or exercise, or eat
properly, and always preferred action over inaction, here was why. He had
to move fast. He didn’t think the later years of his own life contained much
expected value. To do their bit to save the species, he figured they had
maybe ten or at most fifteen years.
As it would turn out, they had five weeks.
As late as the final days of October 2022, you could have ransacked the
jungle huts until you were blue in the face and have had not the faintest
sense that anything was amiss. Walking across the acres of asphalt toward
jungle hut 27, I bumped into Ramnik and his wife, Mallika Chawla. Even as
the price of bitcoin tumbled, Ramnik’s mood hit new highs every day.
Using Sam’s money— or what he assumed was Sam’s money— he was
playing a new and curious role in crypto finance. Between the start of the
boom in 2017 and June of 2022, crypto had re-created the institutions of
traditional finance, without the rules and regulations and investor
protections that exist in traditional finance. It had brokers. It also had its
own banks and sort of banks that paid crypto interest on crypto deposits— ‐


--- PAGE 210 ---

though did not offer insurance on those deposits. The banks re- lent that
money at higher rates of interest to crypto hedge funds— without anyone
having really any idea what those hedge funds were doing with the money.
It had exchanges that did not merely facilitate crypto trades but also
warehoused their customers’ money— without any regulator paying a whole
lot of attention to how they did this. It even had the equivalent of US
dollars, in the form of stablecoins. These were digital currencies on a
blockchain, like bitcoin, but, unlike bitcoin, backed by actual dollars. For
every dollar’s worth of a stablecoin, there was meant to be a dollar held
somewhere in a genuine Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation– insured
bank. But again, there was no proof that these dollars were there.
The whole edifice relied on a fantastic amount of trust. By late October
that trust was gone, and crypto was in a souped- up version of an old- ‐
fashioned financial crisis. In late June, the second- biggest hedge fund after
Alameda Research, Three Arrows Capital, had blown up. The banks and
sort of banks had suffered runs and collapsed. Unlike in a traditional
finance crisis, there was no government to step in and calm everyone down.
The 2008 financial crisis had only subsided after governments had agreed to
bail out the banks. The 2022 crypto crisis lacked this mechanism. Instead of
governments, crypto had Sam. Or, rather, it had Ramnik, who was busily
evaluating which of the failed crypto businesses to save and which to let
die. Sam had never been more important and so, by association, neither had
Ramnik. “It’s a reflection of a collapse of trust,” said someone close to the
business. “Now it’s trust in Sam.”
Trust in Sam meant trust in Ramnik, who was just then putting the
finishing touches on the purchase of two failed crypto banks, Voyager
Digital and BlockFi. At their peak, they’d together been valued at roughly
$7 billion. Now Ramnik was acquiring them for no more than $200 million.
A pittance.


--- PAGE 211 ---

Or so it seemed. Ramnik recently had asked Sam how much capital he
should assume was available for possible acquisitions, and Sam had said,
Just let me know if you get to a billion. Two years earlier, Ramnik was just a
guy hoping to be able to walk to work in the morning. Now he was the
right- hand man to the J. P. Morgan of crypto. In the presence of his wife, he
glowed with the pleasure and the glory of it all.
“What I don’t get is how he knows how to do all this,” I said to his wife,
as we walked into jungle hut number 27.
“I know!” she said brightly. “I ask him that all the time. How do you
know? He just knows.”
‡ On a podcast, Flynn took the side of an alt- right group called Timber Unity in its complaints about
what it saw as excessive restrictions on economic activity in the habitat of an endangered species, the
northern spotted owl. “You have these people in the city who were like, ‘Oh, look. There’s an owl.
Isn’t it cool?’ ” said Flynn. “ ‘We’re gonna destroy all of your livelihoods in your community
because we like this owl’ . . . You know, it’s like it’s saying, like, ‘Oh, I like this exhibit in the zoo
more than everyone you know.’ ” A lot of those people in the city turned out to be the voters in his
election.
§ Both Eric Greitens and Eric Schmitt instantly claimed to have Trump’s endorsement, and thus
Trump’s influence was neutralized. Eric Schmitt wound up winning the primary and the general
election, and now sits in the US Senate.
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 212 ---

I
9
THE VANISHING
was only gone for a week or so. By the time I returned, Ramnik, along
with pretty much the entire corporate org chart, had fled the island. Some
meaningful percentage of the company’s fleet of cars had been abandoned,
keys still inside them, in the Bahamas airport lot. It made for a bizarre
scene: panicked employees of FTX and Alameda Research struggling to
escape against an incoming tide of oblivious tourists in flip- flops and floral
shirts. As they passed one another in the terminal, giant airport video
screens flashed the message over their heads: Get Free Crypto Anytime,
Anywhere. Download the FTX App. The day I landed, Friday, November 11,
the signs on the airport walls were still cheerily pitching crypto— even
though at four thirty that morning, Sam had DocuSigned the papers that
threw FTX into bankruptcy in the United States.
It was late afternoon by the time Natalie collected me from the airport, in
one of the few cars that the local creditors had not tracked down and
repossessed. The night before she’d resigned from her job as head of public
relations and Sam’s life manager. She planned to leave the next morning
without most of her possessions or a clear idea of what had happened. She


--- PAGE 213 ---

knew what everyone now did: at least $8 billion belonging to crypto traders,
and meant to be safe and sound inside FTX, had wound up instead inside
Alameda Research. What had become of the $8 billion was not entirely
clear, but it wasn’t good. Natalie had wept when she’d learned that, as she
put it, “there was a button on FTX. Alameda could take whatever risk it
wanted to.” Like most FTX employees, she’d kept her money on the
exchange. Now it was all gone. Like most FTX employees, she felt as if
she’d been living a dream. Already the dream was growing fuzzy and
requiring effort to recall. Could it really be true that she’d been next- door
neighbors with Vince Carter?
Between Sunday and Wednesday, the inner circle of effective altruists
had been holed up in Sam’s sleeping quarters, trying and failing to save the
company. Natalie now had only a vague sense of their whereabouts or states
of mind. On Wednesday, George Lerner had determined that Nishad was a
suicide risk and arranged for him to be escorted out of the country and to
his parents, in San Francisco. As the company collapsed, Caroline had been
traveling in Asia and had remained there in an odd mood. She struck her
psychiatrist, and others to whom she had spoken, as somewhere between
relieved and happy. She too was now rumored to be heading back to her
parents’ house, in the Boston area. Gary was as silent as ever and
impossible to read but apparently still around. And Sam— well, Natalie
didn’t know what, if anything, Sam was actually feeling, or even where he
was. Tracking Sam was no longer her job.
The road from the airport to the Albany resort passed FTX’s offices.
Natalie was uneasy about me trying to see them. She feared they might
contain the people repossessing the company cars. Still, as we approached,
we slowed. The guard booth was empty. The barrier was down but blocked
as little of the road as ever. There was no sign of life on the field of asphalt;
the cars were gone; the jungle huts seemed entirely abandoned. Then, on


--- PAGE 214 ---

the far side of the lot, a figure rounded a hut and came into focus. It was
Sam, all by himself, in a bright red T- shirt and shorts. Walking circles
around his former empire. Even at a distance, you could tell he could use a
shower and a shave. He walked over and climbed into the car, as if he’d
been expecting us. He needed a ride home, which of course raised the
question of how, and why, he’d come to be here in the first place.
“You know what’s weird to think about?” he said, as we left the office
behind. “Saturday. Saturday everything was normal.”
I did my best to reconstruct what had happened the previous few weeks,
before reconsidering what had happened the previous few years. There’d
been another dustup between Sam and CZ that, when it happened, had not
seemed all that important. In late October, Sam had flown to the Middle
East to raise money and, in the bargain, find a second home, in the Eastern
Hemisphere, for FTX. On the evening of October 24, 2022, he bumped into
CZ at a conference in Riyadh. It was the first time in nearly three years
they’d been in the same room. They’d had a brief, awkward chat, only
because it took less effort than not having it. “It was a five- minute
conversation in which no real information was exchanged,” said Sam. “It
was like fake nice. We dispensed with our obligation to acknowledge we
were both there.” The next day, Sam had flown to Dubai to meet with its
financial regulators. The regulators at the time hoped that FTX might make
Dubai its Eastern Hemisphere headquarters. Sam later wrote up the message
he’d tried to convey to them. “I love Dubai,” he said.
But we can’t be in the same place as Binance. . . . This is for two reasons: first they are
constantly devoting significant company resources to trying to hurt us; and second that they
soil the reputation of wherever they are. I can’t emphasize this enough: in general I hear great
things from other jurisdictions/regulators etc. about Dubai and the UAE [United Arab
Emirates], except that there’s a constant refrain of: that’s the jurisdiction that accepted Binance,
and so we don’t trust their standards.


--- PAGE 215 ---

It was unclear to Sam, if Dubai decided to rid itself of CZ and his
exchange, whether any country in which CZ would be willing to live would
accept them. In these woods, CZ was the biggest bear and Sam seemed to
be going out of his way to poke him. Dubai was tiny, Houston with sheikhs.
Sam’s bid to turn CZ into a homeless fugitive was bound to get back to him.
And yet Sam didn’t leave it at that. On October 30, when he returned to the
Bahamas he tweeted a joke about CZ’s inability to shape US crypto
regulations. “Uh, he is still allowed to go to DC, right?”
Three days later, on November 2, the crypto news site CoinDesk
published an article about a curious document that appeared to have been
leaked to them by someone inside Alameda Research, or perhaps someone
who lent money to Alameda Research. It wasn’t a formal balance sheet.
There was no sign that it had been audited, or that it presented a complete
picture of the contents of Alameda Research, or that it was even real. It
listed $14.6 billion of assets and $8 billion of liabilities that were
supposedly inside of Alameda Research as of June 30, 2022. What the
CoinDesk piece wanted to highlight was that more than a third of the assets
were FTT, the token FTX had issued three years earlier.
In and of itself the article struck people inside FTX as of no more than
prurient interest.¶ Everyone noticed that one of its contributors was the
current girlfriend of Eric Mannes, Caroline Ellison’s former boyfriend at
Jane Street. The previous month, the couple had visited the Bahamas and
stayed with employees of Alameda Research at Albany: Had the leak
somehow originated inside the company? There was also the frisson that
came with catching even a glimpse of the dragon’s hoard. But the piece did
not alarm or even surprise anyone at FTX. FTT was, in effect, equity in
FTX— it had a claim on the first third of FTX’s revenues. FTX had
generated a billion dollars in revenue in 2021 and, even with crypto prices
crashing, was about to do it again in 2022. Sam’s biggest regret, expressed


--- PAGE 216 ---

repeatedly from the moment the price of FTT had rocketed back in 2019,
was that he’d created and sold it in the first place. Ever since, he’d been
vacuuming it up inside of Alameda Research.
On Sunday morning, November 6, CZ posted a tweet to his 7.3 million
followers.
CZ still held the roughly $500 million worth of FTT that he had taken back
in mid- 2021 as part of his $2.275 billion buyout. (Most of the rest of his
massive payout he’d taken in bitcoin and dollars, though he also took back
roughly $400 million of the Binance token, BNB, that he’d used to buy his
stake in the first place.) Sam hadn’t thought much more about the tweet
than he had about the CoinDesk article. On Saturday, November 5, he and
his brother, Gabe, along with Ryan Salame, had met in Palm Beach with
Florida governor Ron DeSantis. The meeting had no particular purpose.
Like basically everyone else in US politics and finance, DeSantis wanted to
meet Sam, and Sam was curious to know more about this person who might
well one day ask him for money. “It was to figure out where he was on the
scale from reasonable person to Trump,” said Sam. “But I couldn’t figure it
out.” After the meeting, he was scheduled to fly to Tampa to watch Tom
Brady’s Buccaneers play the Los Angeles Rams the following day. It turned
out to be thrilling, with Brady leading yet another last- minute game- ‐


--- PAGE 217 ---

winning touchdown drive. Only Gabe and Ryan Salame watched it,
however, as by then Sam was back in the Bahamas, to play the end of
another game.
The run on FTX was in its own way spectacular. There had been $15
billion in customer deposits on the exchange. Or there was meant to be that
amount, held in either fiat currency or bitcoin and ether. On a normal day,
$50 million or so either came into or left the exchange. Each day between
November 1 and November 5, $200 million fled. By late Sunday night, the
sixth, $100 million was leaving every hour. FTX customers withdrew $2
billion that day, and then tried to withdraw another $4 billion on Monday.
By Tuesday morning, $5 billion had exited, and the exchange was clearly
not going to be able to come up with enough cash to pay the swelling
number of customers who wanted their money back. It didn’t formally shut
down withdrawals, but it more or less stopped actually sending money back
to the customers.
Even more interesting than the speed of the event were its inciting
incidents. CZ’s tweet had obviously been the first, but it wasn’t the last, or
maybe even the most important. Caroline had responded to CZ on Sunday
morning.



--- PAGE 218 ---

The tone— the peppy simplicity that obviously masked some other
motive— sounded a lot like Sam. Caroline had actually written it. Neither
she nor Sam expected CZ to accept the deal. CZ wanted to maximize the
damage to FTX, and so would string out the uncertainty for as long as
possible. The hope was that a concrete offer to buy at a certain price would
shut him up and calm the market.
It did the opposite. A risk analysis company called Gauntlet, which
studied the price movements of various crypto tokens, had maybe the best
picture of what actually happened next. Within twenty seconds of
Caroline’s tweet came a rush to sell FTT by speculators who had borrowed
money to buy it. The panic was driven by an assumption: if Alameda
Research, the single biggest owner of FTT, was making a big show of being
willing to buy a huge pile of it for $22, they must need for some reason to
maintain the market price at $22. The most plausible explanation was that
Alameda Research was using FTT as collateral to borrow dollars or bitcoin
from others. “You don’t tell someone a price level like $22 unless you have
a lot of confidence that you need that price,” the CEO of Gauntlet, Tarun
Chitra, told Bloomberg News. By Monday night, the price of FTT had
fallen from $22 to $7. The half a billion dollars of his own money that CZ
had elected to incinerate was, in the grand scheme of things, such a trivial
sum that hardly anyone paid it any more attention.
By Tuesday, the relevant math was fourth- grade level. Before the crisis,
FTX was meant to be holding about $15 billion worth of customer
deposits.* Five billion of that had already been paid out to customers, and
so, still inside FTX, there should have been roughly $10 billion. There
wasn’t. The only remaining assets were whatever was left of the dragon’s
hoard inside of Alameda: a big pile of FTT, another big pile of Solana
tokens, an assortment of crypto tokens that would be even harder to sell,
$300 million worth of Bahamas real estate, and a truly massive heap of


--- PAGE 219 ---

Sam’s venture capital investments— including the stake in Twitter, which
Sam had never bothered to sell. There was still perhaps as much as $3
billion worth of hard currency and bitcoin that they had yet to return to
customers— but the vast majority of the secret stash had no immediate
market. Much of what Caroline and Sam went back and forth about the first
two or three days of the run on FTX was just this. Caroline, who by then
was beaming in from the Hong Kong office, would appear on a video call.
Sam would go down the list of the many things either he or she had bought
and ask: How long will it take you to sell this? For most, the answer was
too long.
On the night of November 6, Sam had called Ramnik and asked him to
come to his Albany unit to talk about how they might find money. Sam had
actually called him twice, in the space of twenty minutes, and Sam never
called twice. The next hour left Ramnik triply confused. He thought that
Sam was in Florida, watching Tom Brady play football. He thought that
Sam lived not alone, on the ground floor of Gemini, but in the Orchid
penthouse, with the other effective altruists. (Like almost everyone else
inside FTX, he still had no idea that Sam and Caroline had been in a
relationship.) Above all, Ramnik did not know why Sam so urgently needed
money. Ramnik could see that money was leaving FTX, but he didn’t view
it as a big deal. The customers might panic and pull out all their money. But
once they realized that there was nothing to panic about, they’d return, and
their money would too.
Ramnik had always wanted to walk to work, and now he did. He left his
place (Cube 1B) and strolled around the Albany marina, past the sleeping
megayachts. They all had names that sounded like inside jokes or bad puns.
Special K. Pipe Dream. Fanta Sea. It was curious how few people were
ever around. Even in the day, there were more boats than people; at night,


--- PAGE 220 ---

the entire resort felt vacant. It was a place where rich people bought homes
they didn’t need because that’s what rich people were supposed to do.
Entering Sam’s unit in Gemini, he found only effective altruists. Nishad
was in the living room, Caroline was on a video screen, and Sam was
headed to his bedroom to lie down. Sam wasn’t exactly incoherent so much
as he was difficult to talk to. Nishad was agitated with Sam in a way that
Ramnik had never seen— at one point turning on him and screaming, “Will
you please fucking stop playing Storybook Brawl?!” Nothing any of them
was saying made sense to Ramnik. Though Caroline was in charge of
Alameda Research, she seemed totally clueless about where its money was.
She’d come onto the screen and announce that she had found $200 million
here, or $400 million there, as if she’d just made an original scientific
discovery. Some guy at Deltec, their bank in the Bahamas, messaged
Ramnik to say, Oh, by the way, you have $300 million with us. And it came
as a total surprise to all of them!
Eventually Ramnik gathered that they needed to raise $7 billion, fast, to
fill what they thought might be a $7 billion hole. (The exact number shifted
around a lot those first few days.) To his obvious question— Why was there
a hole in the first place?— Sam and Nishad and Caroline offered fuzzy
answers. Gary sat quietly off to one side.
Ramnik had sat at the desk beside Gary for six months. “He’d come, sit
down, start working, work twelve hours straight. Not a word on the way in,
not a word on the way out,” said Ramnik. Gary usually didn’t arrive until
early afternoon, but one day he’d turned up at eleven in the morning, and
Ramnik had used the fact to try to start a conversation.
“You’re in early today,” said Ramnik. “It’s only eleven o’clock.”
“And that too in the a.m.,” said Gary.
That was the only exchange they’d ever had, and Gary didn’t look as if
he was hoping for another. Sam, as usual, was doing most of the talking. If


--- PAGE 221 ---

at that moment you had asked Ramnik what he thought Sam knew or did
not know, he would have said that Sam actually didn’t know what had
happened. That he’d been taken by surprise. He wondered: If these people
knew there was a risk that they might not have enough money, why hadn’t
they even bothered to figure out how much they had? They’d done nothing.
The next day, after lunch, an FTX lawyer named Can Sun appeared. Sam
had summoned Can for the same reason he’d summoned Ramnik— to talk
to investors and help him raise $7 billion. Can, too, was perplexed. “They
wouldn’t answer questions directly about where the money went,” he said.
“When I entered the room, no one acknowledged that money was being
mishandled. The money was all there. We just had a liquidity issue.” Sam
and Can and Ramnik and others called everyone on the planet who might be
able to deliver $7 billion quickly: sovereign wealth funds, private equity
funds, Asian crypto exchanges. As it turned out, it wasn’t easy to get people
to give you $7 billion when you couldn’t explain why you needed it. It was
even harder to get people to give you $7 billion when you had to have it
right away. Lots of people were willing to talk to Sam and Can and Ramnik,
but all of them had the same question: Where did the customer deposits go?
When that question went unanswered, everyone who had $7 billion lying
around lost interest.
From the universe of people with that kind of money to spare, only one
person stepped forward to say he might be willing to spare it: CZ. For
obvious reasons, CZ was the last person Sam wanted to call and beg for
money. Sam did not call CZ until Tuesday. “I called CZ and he’s pissed,”
said Sam. “So I started groveling. Three hours later we had an LOI [letter of
intent] signed.” The agreement gave Binance the entire company, minus
FTX US, in exchange for assuming its liabilities. It also gave Binance the
right to inspect the books of both FTX and Alameda Research, such as they
were. It positioned CZ as the first outsider on the planet to see into the


--- PAGE 222 ---

dragon’s lair and to know, or appear to know, exactly what had happened
inside both FTX and Alameda Research.
The following evening, Wednesday, November 9, CZ said that whatever
he’d seen had caused him to change his mind. Sam learned the news from a
tweet:
That’s when everyone who hadn’t already crept away bolted for the airport.
They all had their reasons for their feelings of urgency. Nishad was
speaking more of killing himself. Can’s wife told him that if he didn’t leave
right away, she would file for divorce. Ramnik, who had thought himself a
behind- the- scenes guy, invisible to the outside world, was receiving death
threats. He was relieved to have never been told that money that should
have been inside FTX was actually inside Alameda. It crossed his mind that
his wife had saved him— because everyone would have known that to tell
him was also to tell her. The effective altruists might have expanded their
circle of trust by one, he thought, but not two.
By Wednesday evening, the trust was vanishing even inside the small
circle of effective altruists. Caroline remained almost upbeat, and even tried


--- PAGE 223 ---

to explain to Sam why. “I just had an increasing dread of this day that was
weighing on me for a long time and now that it’s actually happening it just
feels great to get it over with one way or another,” she’d written to him on
Sunday. In the wee hours of Tuesday, Bahamas time, she followed it up
with another message: “Feel weirdly good to get it over with. I’ve been
dreading this for a long time so feels like a big weight off my shoulders.”
The next day, four hours before CZ tweeted his change of heart about
buying FTX, she addressed her subordinates in the Hong Kong office. “I
think I’ll just start by saying some stuff, and feel free to ask questions?” she
began, with a nervous giggle.
Caroline thought in periods but spoke in question marks and exclamation
points. She made the sounds of uptalk and uncertainty while delivering a
message that was brutally simple: they were bankrupt. She didn’t go into a
lot of detail about how it had happened but did say that Alameda had
suffered losses back in June, when their biggest crypto lenders had also
asked for their money back. At that time, Alameda had “borrowed” from
FTX to repay its lenders. Now that they had sold— as far as she knew— ‐
FTX to CZ, Alameda would likely cease to exist. “Mostly I want to say I’m
sorry?” she said. “This really sucks. It’s really not fair to you guys.” She
understood that people might not want to stick around to help clean up
whatever mess needed cleaning up, but “for people who do stick around it’s
possible there’s some future thing.” She concluded on a hopeful note, about
the deal with CZ. “Repaying all of our creditors and making sure Alameda
didn’t go bankrupt is probably, like, good?”
“Can you say how big the hole is?” asked one of the traders in the
audience, when she was done.
Caroline said she’d rather not.
“Is it closer to one billion or six billion?” he pressed.
“The, uh, latter?” said Caroline.


--- PAGE 224 ---

After her talk, Caroline approached a female employee and said brightly,
If you want to stay and help, I’d really appreciate it!
Fuck you, the woman had said.
While Caroline happily made the case for her guilt, Nishad was
unhappily searching for evidence of his innocence. At the start of the crisis,
he seemed mostly concerned that the effective altruist dream had died and
that he, and anyone else who had borrowed money from FTX, would soon
be bankrupt, as they had no assets and still owed money to the company. At
four in the morning on Monday, he texted Caroline, i’m sad about the
reflection of this on ea. By Wednesday, November 9, his mind had turned to
his legal peril. “This is wildly selfish of me but they may need to know it
wasn’t a ton of people orchestrating it,” he messaged Sam, without
specifying who “they” were or what “it” was. He followed it with another
message: “Can you make it you, or you and Gary who people blame?” And
then a third: “I think I need to tell Zane that I wasn’t aware in orchestrating
it.”
That night, Nishad requested a meeting with just Gary and Sam. Once the
three were alone in a room, Nishad asked, What happens if law enforcement
or regulators reach out?
What do you mean? Sam asked.
How do we make sure we cooperate in prisoner’s dilemma? How do we
all make sure we say the other ones are innocent?
I don’t have any reason to think any one of us had criminal intent, said
Sam.
No, said Nishad. That’s not good enough. You need to talk to them. You
need to tell them I had no clue.
How could I know that? asked Sam. You are saying that I should say that
you know nothing about something I know nothing about. How is that even
possible? It makes no sense.


--- PAGE 225 ---

But I didn’t know, said Nishad.
Then say that, said Sam.
It’s not going to work for me, said Nishad. Because there is code- based
evidence of what I did.†
From start to finish, Gary just watched, as he’d done the entire week. He
never said a word. It was as if he had made an expected value calculation of
whatever he might say and decided that words still did not pay.
On Friday, Nishad was gone, which was just as well, as by then the police
in the Bahamas were preparing to arrest any remaining leaders. That
afternoon, roughly $450 million in crypto vanished from the wallets inside
FTX. No one knew who the hacker was; everyone just assumed it was an
inside job; lots of people suspected Sam and Gary. That evening, when Sam
called Caroline, she didn’t pick up. And never again would.
In the middle of all this, the woman responsible for the presence in the
Bahamas of all the characters in the drama intervened. Christina Rolle, the
Bahamas chief financial regulator, was genuinely shocked by how quickly
the financial ecosystem that had grown around Sam and become populated
with opportunists who had done very well off of him had collapsed— and by
how those very people who had taken his money were turning on him
without knowing exactly what he’d done. So long as Sam was giving away
money to everyone, people loved him and nobody asked too many
questions; the moment he was losing money, they turned on him— and
didn’t want to hear his answers to the questions they asked him. She found
it troubling that the police were setting out to arrest people before anyone
had any idea what they’d done. No authority had yet spoken to Sam, or to
any of the other leaders of FTX and Alameda. All anyone knew was what
they read on Twitter. They had no evidence to charge anyone with a crime:
in the Bahamas, fraud required intent, and the intent here was unclear.


--- PAGE 226 ---

Without explicit charges, anyone they arrested could be held only for so
long.
The other reason she didn’t want Sam and Gary arrested was that she
needed their help to understand what had happened. Sam hadn’t returned
her calls all week. On Wednesday afternoon, she finally had a Zoom with
Ryan Salame, who though still co-CEO of FTX had remained in the United
States after Tom Brady’s game, and Ryne Miller, the lawyer for FTX’s US
business. They told her that money had been moved from FTX into
Alameda but that they didn’t know how or why it had happened. “I found it
funny that someone who was the CEO had this level of understanding that
was not good,” said Rolle.
It was an odd moment. All these people inside FTX suddenly wanted to
seem to know less than they did, and all these people outside FTX thought
that they knew more than they actually did. On Twitter, in the blink of an
eye, a rumor became a fact, the fact became a story, and the story became
an explanation. Sam had made off with billions and was already on the run.
Sam was in Dubai or some other place that lacked an extradition treaty with
the United States. Someone posted videos of a man alleged to be Sam
wandering the streets of Buenos Aires. Christina Rolle didn’t think Sam
was going to run, and she didn’t think he was hiding billions. Her biggest
worry about him was that when she asked him questions, he wouldn’t give
her straight answers. “I don’t think he knows why people don’t trust him,”
she said. “It’s not hard to see you are being played by him, like a board
game.”
On Thursday she froze FTX’s assets and effectively threw the company
into liquidation, the Bahamas version of bankruptcy. On Friday— the day of
my arrival— Sam’s father, Joe, had dropped Sam at the old FTX offices to
meet with the Bahamas liquidators. Three hours later, they were finished
with Sam for the day. Rolle asked him to meet with her the next day at


--- PAGE 227 ---

police headquarters. She wanted to question Gary, too, but the liquidators
needed him to secure the exchange’s assets, and so she’d put that off until
the following Monday. After grilling Sam for several hours, Rolle climbed
into a car with her assistant, who had observed the interaction. The assistant
began to cry. “You cannot let them arrest this man,” she’d pleaded. Rolle
hadn’t. She’d persuaded the police to take away Sam’s and Gary’s passports
instead. And that was why, when I rolled into the FTX parking lot with
Natalie, I found Sam, alone but still at large, walking in circles.
By Friday night there were only two people still waiting to exit the stage
and leave it to others to find the meaning of the play. The first was Zane
Tackett. I’d heard that Zane might still be around and found him the next
day, Saturday, November 12. Zane had done something no one else had
done: when the shooting started, he’d run toward the fight rather than away
from it. The previous Sunday, he’d been at a crypto conference in Lisbon,
about to leave for Abu Dhabi, where FTX was sponsoring a Formula 1 race.
He was now walking back and forth across the marble floors of a unit inside
Albany, shifting clothes from a dryer into a bag and drinking a bottle of
rum.
From the start, Zane had been enthralled by Sam, and by the empire he
might create. But he hadn’t signed up to the cause blindly. Before joining
FTX, he’d consulted his old friends in crypto. CZ was one of them. “It was
CZ who told me about him,” he now recalled. “He said, ‘I think that’d be a
really good option for you.’ People have asked me, ‘How did you come to
trust Sam so much?’ CZ was the start of it. But nobody had a bad thing to
say about him.” Zane was the gunslinger who’d been talked into making a
respectable home in the town alongside what appeared to be law- abiding
folk. Lots of big crypto speculators had entrusted their money to FTX
because they trusted Zane.


--- PAGE 228 ---

Those people had had their doubts over the past two weeks, of course.
They read Twitter too. But on Sunday, when things began to unravel, Zane
had asked Sam for orders, and Sam had told him to reassure everyone. “I
pinged Sam and asked, ‘Should I do damage control?’ ‘Yup,’ he said.” Zane
then sent Sam a message asking three questions: “One, are we insolvent,
two, did we ever lend out customer funds to Alameda, and three anything I
didn’t ask that I need to know?” Sam didn’t reply— and then went totally
silent on him. He’d vanished on Zane in the same way he’d vanished on
Christina Rolle.
Still, Zane figured there was no way that FTX was in real trouble. It
made no sense. The price of FTT shouldn’t have any effect on the value of
the exchange, any more than the price of Apple stock should have on
Apple’s iPhone sales. Just the reverse: the exchange’s revenues drove the
value of FTT. “If FTT goes to zero, so what?” said Zane. The other reason it
made no sense was that FTX had been so wildly profitable. “I know how
much real revenue we were making: two bips [0.02 percent] on two
hundred fifty billion dollars a month,” said Zane. “I’m like, Dude, you were
sitting on a fucking printing press: why did you need to do this?”
Right up until late Monday night, Zane had been telling his friends that
everything was okay. The money that fled the exchange belonged to the
people who felt nothing for it; the money that remained, at least some of it,
belonged to people who shared Zane’s principled belief that you stuck by
your allies through thick and thin. “That fucking asshole— how could he not
tell me, when I went out to defend him?” said Zane, repeating more or less
what he’d said to Sam directly. “You let me go out and lie for you. Fuck
you.”
He was so different from the effective altruists. He didn’t have Sam’s
interest in How to Think About Bob. If Bob was Zane’s good friend, and
Zane had no evidence that Bob had committed the unsolved murder, Zane


--- PAGE 229 ---

would have insisted on thinking about Bob the way he had always thought
about Bob. He would have gone out of his way to stand by Bob, and to
make Bob feel better about what had happened. But if he’d stumbled upon
Bob burying a bloody knife in his backyard he’d have shot him on the spot,
without even pausing to update his probabilities. Or at least that’s how I still
imagine Zane.
He’d quit on Tuesday. Now he was on his way to Miami, and from there
he wasn’t sure where he’d go. Whatever trail he took, he wasn’t going to
waste time on it trying to figure out why Sam had done whatever he’d done.
To Zane it didn’t matter. There was one question he dwelled on: Why had
neither he nor anyone else he knew seen this coming? He had the beginning
of an answer. “Sam’s oddness,” he said. “His oddness mixed with just how
smart he was allowed you to wave away a lot of the concerns. The question
of why just goes away.”
There remained the question of who would pass legal judgment on Sam and
the others, and who would clean up their mess. The Bahamas had moved to
put FTX into liquidation the day before Sam signed the papers declaring
bankruptcy in the United States. Alameda Research and the small US
exchange were incorporated in Delaware. FTX’s bigger international crypto
exchange, where the vast majority of the trading occurred, had been created
in Hong Kong. Incorporated in Antigua and now headquartered in the
Bahamas, the main crypto exchange forbade US citizens from using it and
worked fairly hard to keep them from doing so. Any US citizens who
happened to be trading on it had lied their way onto it. There was a decent
argument to be made that judgment of Sam, and liquidation of FTX, should
occur in the Bahamas. There was a less decent argument, made by US
bankruptcy lawyers who stood to make a fortune from the case, that all the
assets and the people meant to be tending them should be moved to the


--- PAGE 230 ---

United States. And there was a third argument, made by Sam, that anything
that happened would need to happen wherever Gary was, because Gary was
the only one who could explain the code that had governed the business.
“At the end of the day, the deciding factor in the jurisdictional dispute is
Gary,” said Sam, the night Zane left, “because he’s the only one who knows
how to use a computer.”
Gary was the last person to leave. He pulled Sam aside in the Orchid
penthouse. And he actually spoke, albeit very briefly.
I talked to my lawyer and I’m going to leave, he said.
Is there anything to say that would be relevant here? asked Sam.
The lawyer told me to leave, and I have to leave, said Gary.‡
That was it. Gary never said when he would leave, or how he would leave
— which was an issue, as the Bahamas had taken his passport. On Sunday
night, without a further word to anyone, he just slipped, unnoticed, out of
the Orchid penthouse. The lawyer who spirited him off arranged with US
authorities to supply him with a second passport, so that they might
smuggle him back to the United States before the government of the
Bahamas knew what had happened. Christina Rolle never had a chance to
speak with him.
¶ Even informed outsiders were not all that surprised. Steve Ehrlich, the Forbes reporter who had
been assigned to determine Sam’s wealth, said that he said to himself when he saw the piece,
Congratulations on knowing something we knew two years ago.
* I’m simplifying this, though only a tiny bit. FTX was a futures exchange, and so it lent money to its
customers to make bets. At any given moment, it would not be expected to have all of its customers’
money immediately on hand. But its chief selling point back in 2019 was that it had found a better
way to evaluate the gambles of the customers to whom it lent money; and it had. And so it should not
have been exposed to losses from its loans to customers.
† The reader is right to wonder how I know any of this. Or, as Sam might put it, What is the
probability that any of this is true? The conversation comes from Sam’s memory soon after. The rest


--- PAGE 231 ---

of the account of the crisis was confirmed by others in Sam’s sleeping quarters. I’m not sure how that
affects the various probability calculations, but anything I didn’t think happened I would not have
included. What any of it means is another matter.
‡ This one I witnessed from a distance. It felt like a kind of miracle.
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 232 ---

O
10
MANFRED
nce everyone who felt the need to run had fled, the Albany resort
reminded me of New Orleans a week after Hurricane Katrina. No
people, but lots of stuff, and a surface quiet that masked the deeper chaos.
You could wander into any one of a dozen luxury condos and find not just
shelter but food and clothing, too. The most glorious five- bedroom units in
Honeycomb or Cube were yours for the taking, and stocked with mountains
of Chinese snacks, dress for any occasion, and enough alcohol to sink a
pirate ship. Sam’s parents had flown to the Bahamas and would remain in
the Orchid penthouse with their son till the end, as would his psychiatrist. A
single FTX technologist named Dan Chapsky had stayed on, but he was an
odd case. He’d held the title Chief Data Scientist, but Sam barely knew who
he was, or what he did, or why he had stayed— and neither did he. On
bankruptcy Friday, he had emerged from his own luxury condo with the
haunted look of a man after an air raid and sought out George Lerner.
“Why am I here?” he’d asked.
George had looked him in the eye for a long moment and said, “You need
to leave.”


--- PAGE 233 ---

For whatever reason, Dan hadn’t left. He’d soon be employed by both the
US and the Bahamas bankruptcy teams and, right after that, be caught up in
the war between them for control of the company’s remaining assets. Both
needed someone to help them figure out the contents of FTX’s database.
Dan was the only one left who knew how to use a computer.
At the peak, Albany had housed as many as seventy employees and
guests of FTX and Alameda Research. By Monday, November 14, the only
other sign of FTX life inside the walls of the Albany resort came from a
house directly behind Sam’s place in Orchid. The Conch Shack, it was
called. The Conch Shack was Ryan Salame’s finest purchase: a drop- dead
gorgeous six- bedroom house that, unusually for Albany, was in proportion
to its surroundings. Ryan had paid $15 million for it and assumed that Sam
would live in it. Sam had taken one look at it, seen that some of its
bedrooms were bigger than the others, and decided he’d instead take the
Orchid penthouse, where he and the other effective altruists could live in
virtually identical conditions.
The Conch Shack had been handed to Constance Wang, the longest- ‐
tenured FTX employee in the Bahamas outside of Sam’s inner circle of
effective altruists. Hired on April 1, 2019, she’d been FTX’s first Chinese
and eighth overall employee. At the moment of the collapse of the exchange
she still had the title chief operating officer, and added to it was CEO of
FTX Digital Markets. Even after all her colleagues had taken flight,
Constance remained inside the Conch Shack with her two cats. The cats
were a sticking point. Lucky and Money, they were called. It would take
Constance a couple of weeks to obtain the permit to fly them back to China,
and even then the airlines would only allow her to return home with a single
cat. If she’d been forced to choose, she’d have picked Lucky, but the
thought of leaving Money behind was unbearable, and Constance was
relieved not to have to think it. Her good friend Quinn Li had stuck around


--- PAGE 234 ---

to help. Along with Natalie Tien and Zane Tackett, Quinn was one of the
forty- eight people below Constance on George’s org chart. “She stayed
because of me,” said Constance. “I need her help to bring my cats home.”
It wouldn’t have been the first time I’d seen people risk it all for a pet.
That had happened during Hurricane Katrina too. But Lucky and Money
were obviously not the only reason that Constance had stuck around, as
she’d remain long after she’d obtained their travel documents. Sam still
held out hope that he might resuscitate the exchange. That hope rested on a
Chinese- born crypto billionaire named Justin Sun, who’d come to Sam with
a plan. Sun, founder of Tron, a blockchain, wanted to hand out his own
private cryptocurrency, Tronix, to FTX creditors, in exchange for their
claim on the remaining assets. Seeing that he needed someone who spoke
Mandarin, Sam had begged Constance to stay. “I want to make sure Sam
doesn’t kill himself,” said Constance, who didn’t think much of Justin Sun’s
plan. “Though sometimes I feel that is not my responsibility.”
More than anything, though, Constance wanted to understand what had
just happened. That was the most important reason the chief operating
officer of FTX had stayed in the Bahamas and risked detention or arrest:
she couldn’t stand not knowing how FTX had operated. “I like to figure
things out,” she said. “If I can’t figure things out, it really bothers me.”
On that Monday morning after the collapse, I found the two young
Chinese women in the Conch Shack kitchen. Constance had already gotten
her hands on a small stack of what amounted to classified documents from
FTX and Alameda Research. Quinn had just returned from a failed attempt
to retrieve fresh vegetables from the houses and apartments around the
island previously occupied by FTX employees. (The places were already
locked and guarded.) Both were dealing with parents back in China
freaking out that their children were refusing to come home until they’d
finished their investigation. The entire situation had been inflamed by the


--- PAGE 235 ---

media; even in China, all anyone was talking about was Sam and FTX.
“FTX got so famous,” said Constance. “This is literally what FTX was
trying to achieve. We achieved it by going bankrupt!”
Both women had used various tricks to get their parents to leave them be.
Quinn argued to her mother that Sam’s parents were now in the Bahamas
with no one to console them. “I said to my mom, ‘They are two old people,
and they have no one with them,’ ” said Quinn. “My mom says, ‘I’m old
people too!’ ” Constance was able to silence her mother only by telling her
that if she kept calling and hollering at her and did not allow her the space
to find closure in this chapter of her life, her sadness might spin out of
control into emotions she’d be unable to survive. Amazed by the success of
Constance’s strategy, Quinn had tried it on her own mother. “I said to my
mom, ‘I’m really sad. Do you want to make me more sad? If you say one
more thing, I’m going to kill myself.’ And it didn’t work! She said, ‘I have
given you enough pity! You are working all the time and you still have no
boyfriend!’ ”
Constance took the lead in their investigation, using Quinn mainly as a
sounding board. As she was the more perplexed, she was also the more
motivated. She’d met Sam before he’d started FTX, when he was still just
another crypto trader no one in Asia had ever heard of. Back in late 2018,
she’d been working in Huobi’s Singapore office when the exchange had
either frozen or misplaced some of Alameda Research’s money. “They
don’t speak Chinese, and customer support does not speak English,” said
Constance. “They found me, and they found their magic fix to their
problem.”
After Sam decided to open his own crypto exchange, he’d hired
Constance away from Huobi. She became the person he took with him to
any meetings in which Mandarin might be spoken. “He was literally
nobody, and nobody was taking him seriously,” said Constance. In those


--- PAGE 236 ---

first meetings, Sam’s leg would bounce up and down so violently that the
table where they sat would bounce too, and Constance would feel the need
to reach over and put her hand on his knee, to still him. He’d just look at her
and nod, but his leg would relax. Often he’d leave her feeling uneasy about
how much he’d disclosed, and to perfect strangers. “There are some times I
told him in the early days, You don’t have to be so honest. In crypto
everyone bluffs. Sam is always, Let me show you my last card.”
Back then, crypto was still a small world. “You go to a few conferences,
you host an event, and you know everyone, basically,” said Constance. So
that people might get to know Sam, she’d taken him to a dance party (“Sam
has one move, bouncing straight up and down”) and kept him there until
three in the morning. They had a meeting scheduled at nine. Constance
awakened at six, hungover, and texted Sam to postpone. He replied
immediately. “He never sleeps,” she said. “I asked him once how he can be
happy, and he said, ‘Happiness does not matter.’ ”
Four years later, in the kitchen of the Conch Shack, she paged through
the private documents she’d unearthed (how I never learned) that described
some of what Sam had done with his surplus waking hours. The first was an
internal spreadsheet of FTX’s spending on endorsements. On George’s org
chart, Constance oversaw all of FTX marketing. Until then, she’d never
seen FTX’s biggest marketing expenditures. The numbers boggled her
mind. Three- year deals each with the Coachella music festival, Steph Curry,
and Mercedes’s Formula 1 team for, respectively, $25 million, $31.5
million, and $79 million. The five- year deal with Major League Baseball
for $162.5 million. A seven- year deal with the video game developer Riot
Games for $105 million. (“Just because Sam likes League of Legends,” said
Constance.) On it went, for a very long time, until it reached the smaller
deals, which actually didn’t look so small: $15.7 million to Shark Tank’s


--- PAGE 237 ---

Kevin O’Leary, for example, for “twenty service hours, twenty social posts,
one virtual lunch and fifty autographs.”
Virtual lunch! Constance of course knew that Sam had been loose with
money. She’d just assumed that he had so much it didn’t matter what he
handed Kevin O’Leary. “I tried to question it,” she said. “But I thought they
were using the profit from Alameda. Or that Sam’s investments were
making a ton of money.”
The next document in her stack was a rough balance sheet of Alameda
Research that differed in important ways from the rough balance sheet that
had inspired the CoinDesk article now being credited with bringing down
the entire business. It appeared to Constance that it had been hastily
concocted either by Sam or Caroline, or maybe by both. Constance had first
come across it the previous Tuesday, after FTX had ceased sending money
back to its customers. “When I saw it, I told my team not to respond to
external parties because I did not want them to lose their good name and
reputation,” she said. The list of assets included the details of hundreds of
private investments Sam had made over the previous two years, apparently
totaling $4,717,030,200. The liabilities now had a line item more important
than everything else combined: $10,152,068,800 of customer deposits.
More than $10 billion that was meant to be custodied by FTX somehow had
ended up inside Sam’s private trading fund. The document listed only $3
billion in liquid assets— that is, US dollars or crypto that could be sold
immediately for dollars. “I was like, Holy shit,” she said. “The question is:
Why?” It was the same question Zane had asked. “We had so profitable a
business,” said Constance. “Our profit margin was forty to fifty percent. We
made four hundred million dollars last year.”
These first two documents in Constance’s private haul helped her to see
how the money had been spent. The others revealed who, ultimately, had
picked up the tab. She now turned the page to a list of FTX’s top fifty


--- PAGE 238 ---

creditors: the fifty biggest accounts whose owners had been unable to
remove their money from the crypto exchange, ranked by the size of their
losses. At the moment of its collapse, FTX had had more than ten million
account holders, to whom it owed $8.7 billion. Nearly half of those losses,
or $4 billion, were concentrated in these fifty accounts. The biggest losers
not employed by either FTX or Alameda were high- frequency trading
firms. Near the top was Jump Trading ($206,160,600.00), and at the bottom
was Virtu Financial Singapore ($10,095,336.83). The real names of about
half the list were concealed. The entity listed as Tai Mo Shan Limited— and
out more than $75 million— was actually another affiliate of Jump Trading.
Many of the disguised accounts belonged to FTX employees. Constance
herself had lost around $25 million. She still had $80,000 in an ordinary
bank account she’d kept from her previous life, but otherwise she’d lost
everything.
As she had also overseen the sales team, she knew most of the names on
the list, especially the high- frequency traders. She knew that every one of
them had been intensely suspicious about the relationship between FTX and
Alameda Research. “Everyone cared about it,” said Constance. “It was
literally the first thing I was asked every day. Is Alameda Research front- ‐
running us? Does Alameda Research get to see other people’s trades? Does
Alameda get less latency?” In other words: Did Alameda enjoy the same
unfair trading edge on FTX that the high- frequency traders enjoyed on
Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange? Oddly enough, it had not.
Instead, FTX had simply loaned Alameda all of the high- frequency traders’
deposits . . . for free!
FTX had also done other things to jeopardize the high- frequency traders’
money, along with everyone else’s. It had exempted Alameda from the risk
rules that governed all the other traders. The trades made by every other
trader on FTX were liquidated the moment their losses exceeded the


--- PAGE 239 ---

collateral they had posted. That’s why FTX felt so much safer than the other
crypto exchanges. No single trader was allowed to lose so much money that
it put the exchange, and everyone who traded on it, at risk. For Alameda
Research, however, an exception had been made. Sam’s private trading firm
was allowed to lose, in effect, infinity dollars before its trades were
liquidated. “No one ever asked about liquidation,” said Constance. “And no
one ever asked, ‘Is our money actually inside Alameda?’ ” Sam was right:
People don’t see what they aren’t looking for.§
Till this point, Constance had been calm and detached. It was as if she
were inspecting the medical charts of a total stranger to determine the cause
of death. When she arrived at the final document, her tone changed. She’d
uncovered a complete list of FTX’s shareholders, along with the number of
shares owned by each. At the end of each year, as part of her bonus, she,
like other FTX employees, had been allowed to buy a certain number of
shares in FTX. Everyone agreed that these shares were the finest possible
investment. Right up to the very end, the world’s most famous venture
capitalists had been clamoring to buy them, at a higher price than
employees were asked to pay. “Sam decides how many each employee is
allowed to buy,” said Constance. “Most everyone maxed out.” She’d maxed
out herself, but she’d never really known what that meant. When she’d
come upon this document, her eyes had naturally searched for the number
alongside her own name: 0.04 percent. Not 4 percent; not four- tenths of 1
percent: four one hundredths of 1 percent. She’d of course known how
many shares she’d been given, or had been allowed to buy cheap, as part of
her annual bonuses. She’d never thought to calculate exactly how much of
the company she owned, or how much anyone else owned. She of course
knew that Sam owned 60 percent and that Gary and Nishad, the next
biggest shareholders, had between them another 23 percent, because those


--- PAGE 240 ---

numbers had been published. Forbes had needed them to rank not just Sam
but also Gary and Nishad on its list of billionaires.
About all other FTX employees, including herself, Constance was in the
dark. Now she compared her number to the numbers of some of the other
people at the top of George’s org chart. Ramnik owned many times more
shares than she did, as did Brett Harrison, the former CEO of tiny FTX US,
who had only joined in May of 2021 (and resigned sixteen months later).
As did . . . basically everyone at her level. She thought back to
conversations she’d had over the past three years with potential investors.
Several had told her that they had seen FTX’s cap table— the list of
shareholders with meaningful stakes— and had been surprised that her name
was not on it. She hadn’t thought much about it. “I always trusted Sam to
treat me fairly,” she said.
That’s when Constance’s feeling about Sam changed: when she saw how
she’d actually been treated. Until then she’d been simply sad. On their last
day in jungle hut 27 the previous Thursday, she and Quinn had fallen into
each other’s arms and wept. They’d lost everything, but felt bereft, not
bitter. Not until Constance saw how little Sam had given her compared to
others did she see red. Enraged, she marched up to the Orchid penthouse
and confronted him. “ ‘It’s not possible,’ he said. ‘I thought you had at least
a million shares.’ ” She had less than a quarter of that. “Sam said to me, ‘I
never intended for that to happen to you,’ and I said to him, ‘It does not
matter what you intended!’ ”
That revelation would set the tone for the next month. Constance would
stick around and make a show of helping Sam with his absurd plan to
resuscitate FTX. She’d meet with him nearly every day and tend to his
linguistic needs and even cook him dinner. What she was really doing was
trying to understand exactly what he’d done. Eventually the US Department
of Justice would find her, and she’d agree to serve as a witness in the case


--- PAGE 241 ---

they’d bring against Sam. But before that, she intended to ask Sam a few
questions. Get him to explain himself. See if she could catch him out. Coax
him into a confession. At the very least, she might find the holes and the
contradictions in his story.
The story Sam told Constance ran as follows. There had been two
different ways that money that should have been in cold storage inside FTX
instead wound up in Alameda’s hot little hands. The first was through
Alameda’s normal trading activity. Like every other trader, Alameda had
been allowed to borrow from the FTX exchange by posting collateral. As
collateral, Alameda had used, among other things, FTT— the token that
was, in effect, equity in FTX. The price of FTT had collapsed with FTX.
The collateral was now worthless, and some of the loans remained unpaid.
In Sam’s story, there was a reason that Alameda had been exempted from
the rules that governed every other trader on FTX, and had liquidated their
trades when the losses exceeded the value of their collateral. Back in 2019,
when FTX was created, Alameda was by far its biggest trader. At the start,
Alameda was on the other side of most trades that occurred on FTX. It
helped the market on the exchange to work better if Alameda could
occasionally run losses— for example, if they needed to step in and acquire
another trader’s losing positions after FTX liquidated them.
In Sam’s telling, FTX had switched off Alameda’s risk limits to make
itself more appealing. The losses caused by this unsettling policy were in
any case trivial. Ordinary trading loans made by FTX to Alameda
constituted a small fraction of the losses to customers; on their own, they
wouldn’t have posed a problem. The bulk of the customers’ money inside
of Alameda that should have been inside FTX— $8.8 billion of it, to be
exact— resided in an account that Alameda had labeled fiat@.
The fiat@ account had been set up in 2019 to receive the dollars and
other fiat currencies sent by FTX’s new customers. Alameda Research had


--- PAGE 242 ---

created the account only after FTX had been unable to get its own bank
accounts. Back in 2019, no real bank in the United States had been willing
to offer its services to a new international crypto exchange. The crypto
entities that they did bank, like Alameda Research, usually disguised their
association with crypto. The biggest US crypto exchange, Coinbase, had by
some miracle persuaded Silicon Valley Bank to give it an account— and
thus a mechanism for Coinbase to receive US dollars from, and send US
dollars to, its crypto trading customers. A US bank account had thereby
given Coinbase a big advantage, but how exactly they’d obtained the
account was a story for another day; the story for this day is how FTX
failed to find its own US bank for sending and receiving dollars. From its
founding in the spring of 2019 until July 2021, when it finally persuaded a
bank in San Diego called Silvergate Capital¶ to open an account in its name,
FTX had no straightforward way to accept dollar deposits.
In Sam’s telling, the dollars sent in by customers that had accumulated
inside of Alameda Research had simply never been moved. Until July 2021,
there was no other place to put them, as FTX had no US dollar bank
accounts. They’d been listed on a dashboard of FTX’s customer deposits
but remained inside Alameda’s bank accounts. Sam also claimed that, right
up until at least June 2022, this fact, which others now found so shocking,
hadn’t attracted his attention. He wasn’t managing Alameda Research;
Caroline was. Toward the end of 2021, when the flow of new dollars into
the fiat@ account trickled to nothing— as customers could now deposit their
dollars directly onto FTX, through a US bank— Alameda Research had a
net asset value of $100 billion. That number was of course wildly
unreliable, as it was simply the market value of lots of cryptocurrencies for
which the market might vanish, if Alameda tried to sell into it. But even if
you valued the contents of Alameda more rigorously, as Sam sort of did in
his head sometimes, you could still easily get to $30 billion. The $8.8


--- PAGE 243 ---

billion that should not have been inside Alameda Research was not exactly
a rounding error. But it was, possibly, not enough to worry about. As Sam
put it: “I didn’t ask, like, ‘How many dollars do we have?’ It felt to us that
Alameda had infinity dollars.”
That feeling would have changed by late spring of 2022. Between the
start of April and the middle of June, the price of a bitcoin fell from just
over $45,000 to under $19,000. Entering that summer, the relative
importance to Alameda of the $8.8 billion had skyrocketed. But Sam wasn’t
managing the risk inside Alameda Research, according to him. Caroline
was. Perhaps because he and Caroline were barely speaking by that point,
she hadn’t bothered to raise, directly with him, her worries about the risks
she’d been running.
Right up until October 2022, in Sam’s telling, he’d had only two brushes
with this huge unexplained pool of other people’s money that had
accumulated inside Alameda, and that Alameda was increasingly dependent
upon. The first was truly bizarre: in mid- June, Caroline had become
alarmed to discover that the fiat@ account had swelled from $8.8 billion to
$16 billion. She shared her worries not with Sam but with Nishad, who in
turn informed Sam and Gary— whereupon Gary discovered that it was just a
bug in the software. The real number in the fiat@ account hadn’t changed:
it was still $8.8 billion.
Three months later, in September, Caroline pulled Nishad aside and told
him that she was growing more and more worried about Alameda’s market
exposure. Nishad had taken Sam out onto the balcony of the Orchid
penthouse and relayed the message— but without explicitly mentioning the
fiat@ account. At that point, in Sam’s telling, Sam thought that Alameda
might be in trouble. He decided to dig into its accounts on his own and
understand the problem. By October, he had a clearer picture. It was only
then that he could see that Alameda had been operating as if the $8.8 billion


--- PAGE 244 ---

in customer funds belonged to it. And by then it was too late to do anything
about it.
Constance heard Sam out. She listened to his story. But she refused to
believe it. She suspected that he was omitting some big, important fact— ‐
say, a sudden trading loss inside Alameda Research that had caused him to
actively grab customers’ money and move it into Alameda. “It is crazy,” she
said. “He made me try to believe it was an accounting error.” She didn’t
know how or why he had consciously decided to take customers’ money
and use it as his own, but she felt sure he had. “I always feel disappointed
that Sam did not explicitly say he moved the funds,” she said. She decided
to find out what had happened on her own, the way she had obtained the
company’s internal documents. She poked and prodded at Sam when his
guard was down. She lurked over Dan Chapsky’s shoulder as he searched
FTX’s computer code for evidence that Sam was not telling her the whole
story. A month into it, she hadn’t found anything.
Just once did she feel she might have tricked Sam into a confession.
She’d been talking to him about how to present his story to the public. “I
said to Sam, ‘You have to explain why you moved the funds.’ And he never
denied that.”
Yet he’d never actually said that he had moved the funds. His story,
implausible as it sounded, remained irritatingly difficult to disprove.
Constance’s own experience working for FTX didn’t help. It would not
have surprised her at the time, for instance, to learn that, to maintain
markets on the exchange, they’d needed to exempt Alameda’s traders from
FTX’s risk rules. She’d seen how critical Alameda’s willingness to trade
anything with anyone at any time had been to the successful launch of FTX.
She didn’t even think it fishy that a crypto exchange had its own internal
trading team. “Most of the exchanges did this,”* she said. “All the Chinese
ones. It’s only a matter of how big the trading team is and what they are


--- PAGE 245 ---

doing.” She couldn’t even disprove Sam’s wild story about the fiat@
account. Up until late 2021, when she had moved her own dollars from her
personal bank account onto FTX, she’d needed to wire it not directly to
FTX but to various accounts owned by Alameda Research. Some of the
dollars inside fiat@ had been hers.
For the better part of the month, I watched Constance return from her
encounters with Sam. “I try to poke, and each time I poke, he says a little
more, and more,” she said. Nothing he said, however, left her feeling that
her situation had been explained. One night in early December, she stood
with Quinn in her kitchen and considered what, if anything, she had learned
about Sam Bankman- Fried over the past month. There’d been only one
serious revelation, she’d decided. Over and over, she’d confronted Sam
with the suffering he had inflicted upon the very people who had been most
loyal to him. A very short list of characters, topped by CZ and a few
Western male former FTX executives, had exited FTX better off than they’d
been when they’d arrived. Most FTX employees had lost their life savings.
Some had lost their spouses, their homes, their friends, and their good
names. There were Taiwanese employees of FTX still in Hong Kong who
couldn’t afford plane tickets home. “I asked Sam: ‘When you were doing
this, have you ever thought how much this event will be hurting people, and
does that count as part of your initial expected value calculation?’ ”
Even here, however, she found herself talking past Sam: in his telling, he
hadn’t realized how much risk he’d subjected others to without their
permission. Constance nevertheless sensed that he didn’t really register the
damage he’d caused to other people in the way that, say, she might have.
“He has absolutely zero empathy,” she said. “That’s what I learned that I
didn’t know. He can’t feel anything.”
The morning after she said that, I returned to the Conch Shack kitchen
and found a handwritten note. “Why can’t Sam love?,” it read. “By Quinn.”


--- PAGE 246 ---

I had a different question. It preoccupied me from the moment of the
collapse: Where had the money gone? It was not obvious what had
happened to it. And it would be hard to understand why the effective
altruists had done whatever they’d done with their customers’ money
without knowing how much of it they had lost and how they had lost it. In
the days after the collapse, I created what might have been the world’s
crudest financial statement. It treated FTX and Alameda Research as a
single entity: Sam’s World. One column listed all the money that had
entered Sam’s World since its inception, in April 2019; a second column
listed all the money that had exited Sam’s World. Both ignored the year and
a half of Alameda’s existence before the creation of FTX, as the numbers
involved were relatively small. All the numbers were obviously very rough
estimates. Some came from Sam, but all were confirmed by former insiders
who had no reason to lie to me. At any rate, when I was done, my extremely
naive money- in, money- out statement looked like this:
MONEY IN:
Net customer deposits: $15 billion
Investments from venture capitalists: $2.3 billion
Alameda trading profits: $2.5 billion
FTX exchange revenues: $2 billion
Net outstanding loans from crypto lenders (mainly Genesis and
BlockFi): $1.5 billion
Original sale of FTT: $35 million
Total: $23,335,000,000
MONEY OUT:
Returned to customers during the November run: $5 billion
Amount paid out to CZ: $1.4 billion (Just the hard cash part of the


--- PAGE 247 ---

payment. I’m ignoring the $500 million worth of FTT Sam also paid
him, as Sam minted those for free. I’m also ignoring the $80 million
worth of BNB tokens that CZ had used to pay for his original stake,
worth $400 million at the time Sam returned them as part of his buyout
of CZ’s interest.)
Sam’s private investments: $4.4 billion (The whole portfolio was $4.7
billion, but at least one investment, valued at $300 million, Sam had
paid for with shares in FTX. He likely did the same with others, and so
this number is likely bigger than it actually was.)
Loans to Sam: $1 billion (Used for political and EA donations. After his
lawyers explained to him that taking out loans was smarter than paying
himself a stock dividend, as he’d need to pay tax on the dividends.)
Loans to Nishad for same: $543 million
Endorsement deals: $500 million (This is likely generous too, as in some
cases— Tom Brady was one of them— FTX paid its endorsers with
FTX stock and not dollars.)
Buying and burning their exchange token, FTT: $600 million
Corporate expenses (salaries, lunch, Bahamas real estate): $1 billion
Total: $14,443,000,000
Obviously, this wasn’t the way Ernst & Young would have drawn it up
— though these lists I made for myself didn’t look much different than Sam
and Caroline’s various attempts to summarize their affairs. In the previous
three and a half years, nearly $9 billion more had entered Sam’s World than
had exited it. When FTX stopped returning funds to customers, on Tuesday,
November 8, it still had $3 billion on hand. That dropped the missing sum
to $6 billion. (The roughly $450 million stolen in the hack three days later
is irrelevant to this calculation.)


--- PAGE 248 ---

There were some likely explanations for the missing money. The more
you thought about them, however, the less persuasive they became. For
example, Alameda traders might have gambled away $6 billion. But if they
had, why did they all believe themselves to be so profitable, right to the
end? I’d spoken to a bunch of them. Several were former Jane Streeters.
They weren’t stupid. They’d all been chirpy and upbeat and even a bit
boastful about how much more money Alameda made per trader than Jane
Street. Alameda may have lost a lot of money trading, but how those losses
occurred was not easy to see. The most hand- wavy story just then being
bandied about was that the collapse in crypto prices somehow sucked all the
money out of Sam’s World. And it was true that Sam’s massive holdings of
Solana and FTT— and other tokens of even more dubious value— had
crashed. They’d gone from being theoretically worth $100 billion at the end
of 2021 to being worth practically zero in November 2022. But Sam had
paid next to nothing for these tokens; they had always been more like found
money than an investment he’d forked over actual dollars to acquire. He’d
minted FTT himself, for free. For his entire haul of Solana tokens, he’d paid
no more than $100 million. His fleece cloud fortune had evaporated, but
that didn’t explain where all those hard dollars had gone.
I found him alone that evening of November 14 in the Orchid penthouse— ‐
the home to the polycule, as his club of effective altruists was now being
called in the New York Post. The outside world was just then entertaining
the most lurid fantasies about Sam’s inner circle. Inevitably, word had got
out that the effective altruists took a principled stand against monogamy.
After that, a rumor spread that they spent half their time in the Orchid
penthouse finding new ways to have sex with each other. Mostly what they
had done with each other was play board games. In the heat of bughouse
chess matches, they’d explored every possible combination and position;


--- PAGE 249 ---

otherwise, not so much. But the confusion was understandable. They’d
granted themselves hunting licenses without ever really wanting to learn
how to handle a gun. Who does that?
In the weeks after the collapse, the Orchid penthouse never lost the
feeling of a smash- and- grab crime scene. Each bedroom remained as it had
been at the moment of its occupant’s departure. In them were preserved not
just possessions but states of mind. Caroline’s room was still the giddy mess
she’d left it when she’d gone on vacation with a new boyfriend: the outfits
she’d decided not to pack were still on her bed. Nishad’s bedroom was
perfectly clean. He had needed persuading to leave the Bahamas, and had
taken the time to leave his space feeling like a hotel room waiting to be
checked into.
Gary’s bedroom, into which Sam had moved, told its own, more
complicated story. Three packed bags remained in a corner: Gary had
somehow decided to pack, then left his bags behind. Yet he hadn’t packed
everything: his dirty clothes were still scattered all over his room. On his
desk remained a half- eaten package of oil- fried noodles. His toothbrush was
still on the bathroom counter. He appeared to have prepared to leave,
changed his mind, stayed for a few days and lived as if he planned to stick
around, then changed his mind again— whereupon he cleared out as fast as
he could. “It’s what people do when they’re afraid,” said Sam, as I picked
through the abandoned possessions. “It tells you something about how and
why people left. Like what if they just took an extra hour and packed? He
stayed for days. Why not stay for days and one more hour? It’s not like he
said, ‘I’ve got one hundred six hours to be here,’ and then he got to one
hundred six and had to run.” He paused, then added. “I’m guessing his
lawyers told him that he’d be facing criminal charges if he stayed.”
The list of questions I showed up with whenever I met with Sam always
felt like one of those trick drinking glasses that refills itself after you’ve


--- PAGE 250 ---

taken a gulp. His answers always led to even more questions. What
happened to those six billion dollars? should have been at the top of my
current list. Constance’s documents had raised a lot of other, obviously less
important questions, however, and one of them I just had to get off my
chest.
“You paid Kevin O’Leary for virtual lunch?” I asked. “Seriously?”
“It wasn’t that much,” said Sam, stretching out on Gary’s bed, which,
now that he no longer could afford the Albany maid service, remained
unmade. The Albany resort was making noises about shutting off the water
and the power, too. “It was like two million a year.”
“Five million a year, for three years,” I said. For some tweets and
autographs. From a Shark Tank person. And not even the most famous
Shark Tank person. Maybe not even the second- most famous Shark Tank
person.
“So,” said Sam. “There’s one type of product that’s like shampoo. The
way shampoo works is, you want shampoo, you buy shampoo. You don’t
tweet about shampoo. Financial products are different. Why do you trade on
Robinhood? Because your friends trade on Robinhood. It’s a conscious
decision.”
He’d entered the mode that maybe came most naturally to him. I thought
of it as Sam's patiently- explaining- things- to- an- idiot mode. He’d have made
a great high school physics teacher.
“You agreed to pay fifteen million dollars to Kevin O’Leary,” I said.
“How do you get people on FTX?” he continued, ignoring me. “Investing
is a social network. It makes no sense, but it is. And Kevin O’Leary is a
social influencer. And when you look at who has influence in this social
network, there aren’t that many people.”
With that, he began to list the people who might count as social
influencers in finance. Kevin O’Leary hadn’t even been at the top of that


--- PAGE 251 ---

list. Sam had tried and failed to hire Mad Money’s Jim Cramer.
“It’s Kevin O’Leary!” I was almost shouting.
“Who listens to him?” said Sam. He’d actually thought about Kevin
O’Leary, the way he’d thought about all the other endorsements. “The
answer isn’t no one. One million people follow him. And they follow him
for his financial advice. It’s shocking. But it’s true. Anything you can do to
grow out this exponential network helps. I can’t claim Kevin O’Leary is
who matters. But I don’t know who matters. How many people who are
expected to give financial advice have one million followers on Twitter?
There’s not some huge number of them. There’s thirty. Twenty will say no
to us for various reasons. He said yes. That’s reason number one.”
“What’s reason number two?” I asked.
“Reason number two is he came to us.”
Eventually we arrived at the question whose answer might offer clues to
other puzzles: Where did the money go? It wasn’t the last time I’d ask it.
Like Constance, I’d poke and prod and always come away with the sense
that I’d learned less than I needed to know. But on that evening, Sam filled
in one piece of this particular puzzle: FTX had lost a lot of money to
hackers. To avoid encouraging other hackers, they’d kept their losses quiet.
The biggest hacks occurred in March and April 2021. A lone trader had
opened an account on FTX and cornered the market in two thinly traded
tokens, BitMax and MobileCoin. His purchases drove up the prices of the
two tokens wildly: the price of MobileCoin went from $2.50 to $54 in just a
few weeks. This trader, who appeared to be operating from Turkey, had
done what he had done not out of some special love for MobileCoin. He’d
found a flaw in FTX’s risk management software. FTX allowed traders to
borrow bitcoin and other easily sellable crypto against the value of their
MobileCoin and BitMax holdings. The trader had inflated the value of
MobileCoin and BitMax so that he might borrow actually valuable crypto


--- PAGE 252 ---

against them from FTX. Once he had it he vanished, leaving FTX with a
collapsing pile of tokens and a loss of $600 million worth of crypto.
The size of those hacks was an exception, Sam said. All losses due to
theft combined had come to just a bit more than $1 billion. In all cases,
Gary had quietly fixed the problem and they’d all moved on and allowed
the thieves to keep their loot. “People playing the game,” was Sam’s
description of them. (He really was easy to steal from.)
The hacks reduced to $5 billion the number of unexplained missing
dollars. Sam was no help in reducing the number further. Either he didn’t
know where the money had gone or he didn’t want to say. He dismissed the
most obvious explanation: Alameda had suffered some big trading loss in
the great crypto crash of 2022. The collapse of FTX felt a bit like the case
of the missing Ripple, but on a far grander scale. This time the question of
where the money was would take longer to answer, and the person most
qualified to figure it out was soon gone.
It was a Monday evening, December 12, and Constance and Quinn had just
finished watching a funny YouTube video about stinky tofu. They were
making their short nightly trek to Orchid to help with dinner when they
spotted, just ahead, the men in uniforms. It looked like an episode of CSI,
and they caught up to the guys on the sidewalk outside Sam’s building to
ask why they were there. The men wouldn’t say. Instead, they said, You’re
welcome to go up and find out for yourselves. Which isn’t something that
men in uniforms normally invite you to do. So they did.
Moments earlier, a small crowd— Albany officials, CSI- looking people,
one very large Bahamian police officer— had stepped off the elevator and
into the penthouse. There was a long hallway from the elevator to the living
room. Coming down it, the big policeman asked, “Is Mister Sam
Bankman- Fried here?” He was reading from a paper in his hand— ‐


--- PAGE 253 ---

apparently a warrant. When George stood up from his chair in the living
room, the policeman approached him and asked, “Are you Sam Bankman- ‐
Fried?”
At first no one could find Sam. As it turned out, he was tapping into his
phone in Gary’s bathroom. Less than an hour earlier, his lawyers had called
to say that the US government was giving him an hour to decide whether to
return to the United States or face arrest in the Bahamas. He’d been rushing
to send in his written testimony to the House Financial Services Committee,
which was about to hold an inquiry into the collapse of FTX. Sam had
hoped to cut a deal that would allow him to appear in person without being
detained by US authorities, but that clearly was not going to happen. Before
he’d hit Send, he’d landed in an argument with his mother about what he
planned to say. The opening of his testimony included the sentence “I
fucked up.” You cannot say “fuck” to a US congressional committee,
argued Barbara. That point now seemed moot,† as the Bahamian police
officer had him in handcuffs before he could finish what he was doing.
Barbara stopped arguing with Sam about what he could say to Congress,
and started arguing with him about what he should wear to jail. She wanted
him to put on long pants. Sam insisted on remaining in his cargo shorts.
As the police explained the charges and produced the warrant, Constance
and Quinn entered and tried to make themselves useful. To the mess Gary
had left behind, Sam had added his own sedimentary layer of laundry. They
searched through it for clothes Sam might want to take with him to jail. He
needs socks, thought Quinn, as the police officer led Sam from the room.
Because he likes to change his socks a lot. You can’t take him away yet,
because I have not finished picking up his socks. George was now in the
room too, looking for things Sam might need. He came across a keepsake
box. It surprised him. He hadn’t known that Sam had the sentiment in him.
He opened it. It had very little inside. A few medals from high school math


--- PAGE 254 ---

competitions. A copy of Forbes magazine, with Sam’s face on the cover.
And a box of business cards, from his time at Jane Street Capital.
It was Manfred that caught Constance’s eye. Manfred was Sam’s stuffed
animal. He’d had it since birth and refused any substitutes, and so Manfred
was about to turn thirty- one years old. She’d first seen Manfred in Hong
Kong— Sam had brought it with him from Berkeley. Even then, Manfred
was so old and worn it was hard to determine his species. Might have been
a dog, could have been a bear. Manfred had made the journey from Hong
Kong to the Bahamas and, Constance assumed, might soon be going to jail.
Sam liked having Manfred around that much. Constance and Quinn had
gone back and forth on the meaning of Sam’s childhood friend. Sam didn’t
care about real animals. It had been an expected value calculation, rather
than emotion, that had led him to go vegan. Quinn thought that Sam kept
Manfred so close because “he doesn’t need to share Manfred with anyone.”
Constance saw Manfred in a different light. “I think it is very, very
important for him to have an emotional attachment,” she said.
§ Sam said much the same thing to me. “No one ever asked about the risk engine,” he said. “I don’t
know what I would have done if asked. I would have done one of two things. Either I would have
answered a different question, or I would have made a word salad.”
¶ The institutions that stepped up to bank crypto wound up paying a huge price. Of the four that
collapsed in the spring 2023 run on regional US banks, three were the earliest bankers of crypto
firms: Silicon Valley Bank, Silvergate Capital, and Signature Bank. The fourth, First Republic Bank,
was not important in the crypto financial ecosystem but did have an account with $200,000 in it in
the name of Sam Bankman- Fried.
* The lawsuit filed against Binance by the SEC alleged, among other things, that the world’s biggest
crypto exchange used an internal trading team to manipulate its volume and removed billions of
dollars’ worth of customers’ money and sent it to a trading firm, owned by CZ, called Merit Peak
Limited.
† It wasn’t. The document fell into the hands of reporters, who forwarded it on to the committee.
Members of the committee saw Sam’s document. They agreed with his mother.


--- PAGE 255 ---

OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 256 ---

W
11
TRUTH SERUM
hen the lawyer from Sullivan & Cromwell sent him the message
asking him to sit tight because something big might be coming his
way, John Ray had no idea what that big thing might be. All he knew was
that whatever got to him would be a corpse. He knew nothing about crypto
or its culture. He wouldn’t have even wanted to be able to explain bitcoin.
He certainly didn’t know anything about FTX, and when the Sullivan &
Cromwell lawyer referred to “SBF,” he didn’t know who or what the guy
was talking about. “I thought it might mean ‘small box Ford,’ ” said Ray.
After a phone call on the night of Tuesday, November 8, the Sullivan &
Cromwell lawyer had left him hanging. Finally, late Wednesday morning,
Ray received a text: It’s insane. I’ll try to get back to you later. Then
crickets until 12:33 a.m. on Friday, November 11. At that improbable hour,
the Sullivan & Cromwell guy sent John Ray a text: they are still
considering whether you are the right candidate for the job. Two hours later
he texted again: SBF has gone underground. A part of John Ray thought
that he was getting too old for this game.


--- PAGE 257 ---

The game still needed John Ray, however. The wild and wonderful world
of US corporate bankruptcy was increasingly dominated by big law firms,
but there were still a few of these lone actors, like Ray, who played the role
of wildcatters. The law firms brought in the wildcatter to take over as CEO
of the failed firm, and the wildcatter in turn hired the law firms. As a legal
matter, at 4:30 in the morning on Friday, November 11, 2022, Sam
Bankman- Fried DocuSigned FTX into bankruptcy and named John Ray as
FTX’s new CEO. As a practical matter, Sullivan & Cromwell lined up John
Ray to replace Sam as the CEO of FTX, and then John Ray hired Sullivan
& Cromwell as the lawyers for the massive bankruptcy.‡
Sullivan & Cromwell was present on the scene only because the firm had
done a bunch of work for Sam back when everyone loved him. They’d
actually served as FTX’s lawyers when the exchange had gone before US
regulators to answer questions like: Are there any conflicts of interest
between FTX and Alameda Research? Sam had never heard of John Ray,
and he hadn’t wanted to sign the bankruptcy papers. Or rather, there had
been a period of about two hours on the morning of November 11 when
he’d been willing to sign them. Up to that moment, he’d listened to the
lawyers from Sullivan & Cromwell, and to his own father, with the
combination of disinterest and polite skepticism that he reserved for
grown- ups who were just telling him to do whatever grown- ups normally
did. They were all saying that if he didn’t sign the documents, he was going
to be thrown into bankruptcy by various barbaric countries: he and FTX
would be in safer hands in the United States than in other jurisdictions. Sam
wasn’t sure this was so.
While Sam stewed, John Ray read up on him and this company he’d
created. “It’s like, What is this thing?” said Ray. “Now it’s just a failure, but
it was once some kind of business. What did you guys do? What’s the
situation? Why’s this falling into bankruptcy so quickly?” He briefly


--- PAGE 258 ---

considered the possibility that the failure was innocent: maybe they got
hacked. “Then you start looking at the kid,” said Ray, the kid being Sam. “I
looked at his picture and thought, There’s something wrong going on with
him.” Ray prided himself on his snap judgments. He could look at a person
and in ten minutes know who they were, and never need to reconsider his
opinion. The men he evaluated he tended to place in one of three bins in his
mind: “good guy,” “naive guy,” and “crook.” Sam very obviously was not a
good guy. And he sure didn’t seem naive.
Sam had been led to believe that whoever succeeded him as CEO would
at the very least use him as a resource, to help find the missing money. That
was never going to happen. In the early days of his career in bankruptcy,
back in the 1990s, John Ray had learned a lesson the hard way. One of the
crooks he’d replaced engaged him in conversation and then lied about what
had been said. In the first few days after he signed the company over to
Ray, Sam reached out to him, over and over, with these pitiful emails. Hey
John, I’d really love to talk. Ray took one look at them and thought, No
way, José.
His unwillingness to interact in any way with Sam of course made it
more difficult to figure out what Sam had done, or why he’d done it. “It’s
literally like you’re pulling out a box of puzzle pieces and some of the
pieces are missing and you can’t talk to the guy who created the puzzle,”
said Ray. He’d spoken only long enough with the other members of Sam’s
inner circle to see them for what they were. Nishad Singh struck him as a
naive guy. “He’s narrow,” said Ray. “It’s tech, tech, tech. There’s never a
problem he can’t solve. He’s not going to steal money. He’s not going to do
anything wrong. But he has no idea what’s going on around him. You ask
him for a steak and he puts his head up the bull’s ass.” The bankruptcy team
had located Caroline Ellison by phone on the Saturday after Ray became
FTX’s new CEO. She at least had been able to explain where some of the


--- PAGE 259 ---

wallets storing the crypto were stashed. Other than that, she wasn’t much
use. “She’s cold as ice,” said Ray. “You had to buy words by the vowel. An
obvious complete fucking weirdo.”
As Caroline spoke, Ray had tried to figure out where she was. She
claimed to be in Boston. Ray knew that wasn’t true. He made chitchat that
sounded more innocent than it was. Was it a long flight from Hong Kong?
How’s the weather where you are? The FBI was looking for Caroline, and
he intended to help them find her.§ He had a clear, narrowly defined job: to
find as much money as he could and return that money to the creditors.
Almost as soon as he became the new CEO of FTX, he took on a second,
far more loosely defined one: helping US prosecutors make their case
against Sam Bankman- Fried. “There’s people that are born criminals, and
there’re people that become criminals,” said Ray. “I think he became a
criminal. The how and why he became a criminal I don’t know. I think
maybe it takes an understanding of this kid and his parents.”
Then all was chaos. Sam signed the papers and announced eight minutes
later that he’d changed his mind, only to have Sullivan & Cromwell inform
him that there was no updating after you’d declared bankruptcy. That
cleared the way for Ray to be briefed on FTX. He now learned that FTX
owned thirty different crypto exchanges— not just in the Bahamas and the
US but also in Turkey and Japan and, well, you name it. Wherever people
traded crypto in size, FTX had incorporated an exchange and sought a
government license. Each exchange had money on it and customers who in
theory could log in and withdraw their deposits. So far as Ray could see,
which was not very far, no money was moving. “There was no sheet of
paper with bank account information on it,” he said. Inside scores of small
banks and far- flung crypto exchanges, FTX or Alameda or one of the more
than one hundred other corporate entities they controlled held many dollars


--- PAGE 260 ---

and other fiat currencies. There were also, on some Amazon server,
passcodes that gave you access to virtual wallets with crypto inside. “The
wallets were in the cloud,” said Ray. “You lose the passcodes, you lose the
money.”
If the money was hard to find, it was in part because there was no person
inside of FTX— at least no person Ray was willing to speak with— in
charge of knowing where it all was. “There was no structure,” said Ray.
“No list of employees.¶ No org chart.” Six days into his new job, Ray filed
a report with the US Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. “Never
in my career have I seen such a complete failure of corporate controls and
such a complete absence of trustworthy financial information as occurred
here,” he wrote.
Instead of grilling the people who had created the mess, Ray hired teams
of hard- nosed sleuths— many of whom he’d worked with before. “Serious
adults,” as he called them. The Nardello firm was a lot of former FBI guys.
(Corporate motto: We find out.) Chainalysis, the crypto sleuthing firm, was
new to him. Ray told his people to “do a Zoom interview with every single
FTX employee. And if they don’t contact you to arrange a time, they’re
fired.” Maybe eighty employees got themselves fired that way. Just about
everyone else would be fired after their Zoom call. Even if you came out of
the woods with your hands in the air you got shot. “He was acting like
every single person who was not in the United States was part of a crime,
but he didn’t know what the crime was,” as one FTX employee put it. On a
group Zoom call to talk about the mysterious roughly $450 million hack
that had happened the day of the collapse, Sam himself popped up. Hey,
Sam here! Ray said, imitating Sam’s chipper tone, itself an imitation. “We
were trying to figure out what the fuck is going on and who hacked us,”
said Ray. “He knows nothing about the hack. He keeps saying, ‘You have to


--- PAGE 261 ---

ask Gary.’ He pops up later and says, ‘I need my passwords to get into the
system.’ I’m like, Fuck no.”
Within a few weeks, Ray had fired pretty much everyone with deep
knowledge of whatever had happened inside FTX and Alameda Research.
He could think of but one exception. “I think they’re still paying the
psychiatrist,” said Ray.
That was in early 2023. By late April, John Ray’s head was on a swivel.
“This is live- action,” he said. “There’s always something every hour.” One
day, some random crypto exchange got in touch and said, By the way, we
have $170 million in an account of yours: do you want it back? Another
day, some random FTX employee called them out of the blue to say that
he’d borrowed two million bucks from the company and wanted to repay
the loan— of which, so far as Ray could see, there was no record. Of course,
once you heard about one loan, you had to wonder how many others like it
you’d never hear about. The search for money inside Sam’s World
reminded Ray of the Easter egg hunt he’d just run for his grandchildren.
“At the end they have a count,” he said. “Five are missing. They go out and
look for them. They come back with six.” The extra egg was a yellowing
relic undiscovered the previous year. His teenaged grandchild had said to
him: This is just like your new job! And it was true! John Ray was on a
bizarre Easter egg hunt with no prior egg count. With no idea how many
eggs he was looking for, he’d never know when to end his search.
Several months into the hunt, Ray’s sleuths had discovered that
“someone had robbed the exchange of four hundred fifty million.” They’d
stumbled upon not the simple hack of November 2022 but the complicated
BitMax and MobileCoin hacks of $600 million in the spring of 2021. (The
dollar value changed with fluctuations in the price of the stolen crypto.)
They’d tracked the hacker not to Turkey but Mauritius. “We have a picture
of him going in and out of his house,” said Ray. He was pretty sure he was


--- PAGE 262 ---

going to get most of that money back. “We believe there are a lot more of
these,” said Ray. Eventually, I figured, he’d find the $1 billion or so lost in
hacks that Sam would have just told him about, if he’d been willing to talk
to Sam.*
It was true, as Sam said, that people don’t see what they’re not looking
for. It was also true that they have a talent for seeing whatever it is they
expect to see. John Ray expected to see evidence of a crime. To our
meetings he always brought new and seemingly damning pieces. One time,
he’d found Alameda Research’s US tax forms from 2021, for instance.
Alameda had reported a loss of more than $3 billion. If it was what it
seemed to be, it would help to explain the hole in my private balance sheet;
but it was actually just a piece of a bigger and more complicated puzzle.
That year, Alameda Research had sold short FTT at the same time an entity
it controlled bought the same quantity of FTT. The price of FTT had gone
up, a lot. Alameda Research suffered a multibillion- dollar trading loss; the
second entity had taken in a precisely corresponding multibillion- dollar
gain. The accounting rules for Alameda Research allowed it to report
unrealized market losses as tax losses; the accounting rules for the other
entity did not require that it do the obverse with its gains. Alameda’s tax
lawyers, a group that included Sam’s father, had argued for taking the tax
loss, as it could be offset against current gains. It was, as one of the lawyers
put it, “a fake loss.”
Back in June 2022, Nishad Singh had filled my ears with the many
devious ways people sought to extort money from FTX. Several employees
had joined the firm, been found wanting at their jobs, and been fired— then
had sought out one of several law firms that famously specialized in
shaking down crypto firms.† Nishad had been outraged not merely that the
various accusations the fired employees had made were pure inventions but
that everyone involved knew that FTX would rather pay out several million


--- PAGE 263 ---

dollars than endure the cost of a false accusation. “The American
employees are the problem,” he said. “The Chinese employees don’t do
this.” FTX had finally cooked up a strategy they called Operation Warm
Blanket. Operation Warm Blanket identified the law firms that engaged in
the shakedowns and retained them to do legal work, so that they couldn’t
sue FTX. At the time, it seemed smart; less so two years later, with John
Ray waving documents and arguing that Sam had paid hush money to settle
whistleblower complaints.
To John Ray it felt like an Easter egg hunt. To me it felt more like an
amateur archaeologist had stumbled upon a previously unknown
civilization. Unable to learn anything about its customs or its language, he
just started digging. The artifacts unearthed by the excavation lent
themselves to an interpretation that would have puzzled the aboriginals who
had created and used them. But the pleasure Ray took in whatever he
unearthed was so infectious that I often didn’t have the heart to say, “I’m
not quite sure that you’ve found exactly what you think you have found,” or
“I actually know what that is, and it isn’t what you think.” At some point
his team discovered that a Hong Kong subsidiary of Alameda Research
called Cottonwood Grove had bought vast sums of FTT, for example. To
the innocent archaeologist, it was evidence of Sam’s World artificially
propping up the value of FTT. Ray didn’t know that FTX had been
obligated to spend roughly a third of its revenues buying back and burning
its token, and that Cottonwood Grove was the entity that did it.
From my perch on the side of the dig, I would occasionally shout down
to the guy running it my guess about the most recent find, but he’d just look
up at me, pityingly. I was clearly a naive guy. During one of our meetings,
Ray asked, “Did you ever hear of this guy Zane Hacket?” He’d gotten the
name wrong but he’d discovered that Zane had pulled many thousands of
dollars’ worth of crypto off the exchange in the weeks before the collapse.


--- PAGE 264 ---

And he had! In the weeks before the collapse, Zane had bought some stuff.
But Zane had also deposited a million and a half dollars’ worth of crypto
onto the exchange the Sunday of the collapse. He had the receipts to prove
it: when FTX vanished, much of Zane’s wealth vanished with it. Zane’s
problem wasn’t that he was a crook but that he was too trusting. The same
was true of almost all of FTX’s employees, many of whom had lost
everything. Their lost civilization had been built not on cynicism but on
trust.
That was hard for the archaeologist with no prior knowledge of it to see.
Ray’s first impression of Sam and his inner circle was the starting point for
a narrative that could be imposed on almost any of the remaining fragments
of Sam’s World. The hundreds of private investments made by Alameda
Research, for instance. When we first met, in early 2023, Ray went on
about how fishy these all were. He had a theory about why Sam had thrown
money around the way he had: Sam was buying himself some friends. “For
the first time in his life, everyone ignores the fact that he’s a fucking
weirdo,” said Ray. As an example, he cited the dollars Sam had invested in
artificial intelligence companies. “He gave five hundred million bucks to
this thing called Anthropic,” said Ray. “It’s just a bunch of people with an
idea. Nothing.” A few weeks later, Google and Stark Capital and a few
other companies invested $450 million in Anthropic. The terms revalued
the stake Sam had bought for $500 million to $800 million. I knew at least
one investor who thought that if that stake was broken up into smaller
pieces and slowly sold off, it might easily fetch a billion.
Once Ray’s people had finished doing the math, they concluded that FTX
still owed its customers $8.6 billion. There were at least three ways the
money might be found to repay them. The first was the Easter egg hunt, the
search for company funds that might still be stashed in banks and crypto


--- PAGE 265 ---

exchanges. A second was to sell whatever was left over inside the dragon’s
lair— not just the stake in Anthropic but the hundreds of other private
investments and the vast pile of lesser- known cryptocurrencies. The third
was to claw back money from the people Sam paid to be his friends— his
investments in other people’s funds, his political donations, even his
philanthropic gifts.
To wring the money out of the people Sam had hurled it at, John Ray
needed to prove two things. The first was that FTX hadn’t received
equivalent value for its money. You couldn’t claw back money from a
plumber who’d been paid some normal sum to unclog an FTX drain. But
you could claw back money from the researcher to whom FTX had handed
a grant to invent drains that never clogged. Simply not getting value for
money was not enough for Ray to get it back, however. He also had to
prove that at the moment Sam gave money away, it wasn’t his money to
give. And the only way it wasn’t Sam’s money was if FTX, in the moment
he gave away the money, was insolvent, or nearly so. Ray’s various
attempts to claw back money raised an interesting question, which his team
had yet to answer in an intelligible way: At what point was there less
money in all of Sam’s World than was supposed to be inside of FTX?
Exactly when did FTX go broke?
Instead of answering the question, Ray launched a blitzkrieg of lawsuits
against various people to whom Sam had handed money. These were really
fun to read. They were still legal texts, but they all had subtexts. Plus, Ray
wrote to attract media attention. “You have to tell a story,” explained Ray.
“Nobody wants to read X dollars wired to Y, blah, blah, blah. You need the
imagination of a child to write this stuff.” In the first eight and a half
months, he filed nine of these clawback lawsuits. Ray mainly targeted
insiders— Sam, Sam’s parents, Caroline, Nishad, and so forth— or people to


--- PAGE 266 ---

whom Sam had forked over huge sums to invest on his behalf.‡‡ His most
revealing target, at least to me, was FTX’s lawyer Dan Friedberg.
In Sam’s World, Dan Friedberg— who was in his early fifties— had been
the only important grown- up. At the behest of Sam’s father, he’d left a
multimillion- dollar- a- year job at the law firm Fenwick & West to chase
after Sam wherever he went. He was FTX’s general counsel. He was also
the babysitter. To a baby who terrifies his parents and is calling the shots.
He’d followed Sam to Hong Kong and then moved again to the Bahamas,
where he spent a lot of time looking out of place in Bermuda shorts.
Friedberg was who Sam usually had in mind when he complained about the
pointless stuff that grown- ups asked him to worry about. Even in good
times, it was obvious that Friedberg had had only so much influence on
him, or on the operation, though Friedberg’s name of course appeared on
many official documents. He’d helped to set up the bank accounts that
received the deposits from FTX’s customers. He’d helped to execute
Operation Warm Blanket. But in the week of FTX’s collapse, he’d been the
first employee to abandon ship, and had gone immediately to the US
financial regulators and the FBI. Even then, he didn’t know exactly what
had happened between FTX and Alameda— just that whatever it was was
bad. And he was completely, totally crushed. He’d sort of gotten swept up
by the enthusiasm of the effective altruists. “I wanted there to be a Sam,” as
he put it.
Friedberg’s most serious offense, I suspected, had been committed after
the collapse. After he’d joined FTX, he’d moved about a million dollars’
worth of crypto from his account on Coinbase onto FTX US. He’d tried,
and failed, to attach himself to a suit brought by other creditors to prevent
Sullivan & Cromwell from controlling the bankruptcy, and thus all the
evidence of what had happened. No one had asked Dan Friedberg to reach
out to the bankruptcy judge; all by himself he’d just filed a declaration with


--- PAGE 267 ---

the Delaware bankruptcy court. The literary energy of the thing exceeded
even John Ray’s. It explained that, back in late 2020, Friedberg had hired a
Sullivan & Cromwell partner named Ryne Miller to become the general
counsel for FTX US. He wrote that Miller had told him back then that he
hoped to return to Sullivan & Cromwell— and so he needed to direct as
much FTX legal work as he could toward his future employer. FTX had
subsequently paid Sullivan & Cromwell between $10 million and $20
million in fees. In one instance, Friedberg alleged, Sullivan & Cromwell
had billed FTX $6.5 million for work that should have cost a small fraction
of that amount.
At any rate, in the week of the collapse, when it became clear that FTX
was bankrupt, the lawyers argued about what to do. Along with all the other
lawyers, Friedberg had resigned. Miller alone had stayed on and pushed for
Sam to sign the bankruptcy documents and for Sullivan & Cromwell to run
the bankruptcy proceedings. It was also Miller, wrote Friedberg, who
pushed for FTX US to be included in the bankruptcy— even though FTX
US was a wholly separate entity and appeared to be solvent.§§ Miller had
done this for two reasons, Friedberg alleged. The first was to strengthen the
case for the lucrative bankruptcy to unfold in the United States, as opposed
to, say, the Bahamas. The other was that FTX US controlled a pool of $200
million that could be used to pay Sullivan & Cromwell. At the end of his
declaration, Friedberg wrote, “I am not the only former FTX employee who
has serious concerns about S&C. Both former and current employees are
scared to raise these issues because S&C might take adverse action against
them.”
Inside the US bankruptcy system, there existed a frustrating and often
frustrated character called the trustee. Employed by the US Department of
Justice, the trustee was meant to serve as a check on the insiders who
profited from the bankruptcy. (And who controlled the evidence for any


--- PAGE 268 ---

criminal cases.) But the only power the trustee had been given by law was
the power to bitch and moan to the bankruptcy judge, himself usually a
former bankruptcy lawyer. The US Trustee assigned to the FTX case,
Andrew Vara, had written a strongly worded letter to the judge, John T.
Dorsey, arguing that Sullivan & Cromwell shouldn’t be allowed to run the
bankruptcy, and that an independent examiner should be brought in to
police it. Dorsey had denied the request. He did the same with Dan
Friedberg’s. At the hearing to decide whether Sullivan & Cromwell could
run the bankruptcy, witnesses were allowed to appear in person or by
Zoom. Friedberg had Zoomed in, uninvited, and offered to testify under
oath. Dorsey refused to allow it.
Outside the US courtroom, Friedberg had one of the better views of what
had occurred inside Sam’s World and maybe the finest view of the role
Sullivan & Cromwell had played in it. Inside the courtroom, Dan
Friedberg’s experience was deemed irrelevant. And that, it seemed, was the
end of it. US bankruptcy judges have sensational powers to determine
which evidence to admit in a case.
But then in late June, John Ray made Dan Friedberg relevant again, by
suing him in bankruptcy court. Ray had his own response to the dispute
between Ryne Miller and Dan Friedberg. He thought Miller “a naive guy.”
He thought Friedberg “a born criminal.”
Dan Friedberg hadn’t been charged with a crime. He was cooperating
with the Department of Justice in their investigation. Ray didn’t have the
power to charge Friedberg with a crime. In his lawsuit, which sought to
claw back all the money FTX had paid Dan Friedberg, Ray listed the bad
things he thought Friedberg had done. He also listed the monies that he
wanted Friedberg to return. Most of the money was in a single line item. “In
July 2020, “wrote Ray, “the FTX Group caused Friedberg to be granted
102,321,128 Serum tokens, a digital currency launched by the Solana


--- PAGE 269 ---

Foundation in 2020. . . . At the time of Plaintiff’s bankruptcy filing the
value of Serum was estimated at $.33 per token, and therefore Friedberg’s
Serum holdings were worth $33,765,972.20.”
Before I read that line, I had only ever heard Ray refer to Serum (and
Solana and FTT) as “Sam Coins” or “shitcoins.” His view of crypto was a
bit like his view of people. There was “the good shit” and “the bad shit.”
(Though no naive shit.) I’d never tried to argue with him, in part because I
thought he was sort of right. Still, there were distinctions worth making that
he hadn’t bothered to make. FTT received an actual cash flow— the robust
revenues from FTX— and so was more like corporate equity. Solana,
because it could process tens of thousands more transactions per second
than Bitcoin, was perhaps better designed than Bitcoin to fulfill Satoshi’s
original vision and become a means of exchange. In any case, because a
sufficient number of people had come to believe that story, there was a real
market for Solana tokens, and the pile that Sam had accumulated still had
value.
Serum was, by comparison, a dubious proposition. Serum was more like
a currency in the private board game Sam never stopped playing inside his
own mind.
Serum was Sam’s bet on blockchains replacing, say, the New York Stock
Exchange or, for that matter, FTX. Blockchains were just communally
maintained records of who owned what and when they’d owned it. They
could keep track of any transaction. It was at least theoretically possible that
they could keep track of all financial transactions. The Serum tokens that
Friedberg had been paid gave their owner trading discounts on, voting
rights over, and a slice of the tiny fee charged for any financial transaction
that occurred on the Solana blockchain. Which sounded great. The problem
was that there were relatively few financial transactions on the Solana
blockchain. Sam had simply cooked up the idea with Solana’s founders,


--- PAGE 270 ---

minted ten billion of these Serum tokens, kept most of them for himself— ‐
but handed some to his employees, as pay.
The Serum tokens Sam paid to employees like Friedberg appeared to be
fetching $.33 at the time of his bankruptcy. Their true value was not as
clear. The FTX employees’ Serum tokens were “locked”; the employees
were forbidden from selling them until they became unlocked. The person
who did the unlocking was Sam. Initially, the tokens were meant to be
unlocked over the course of seven years, starting at the end of the first year.
Employees could sell one- seventh of their Serum at the end of that first
year, and another seventh at the end of each of the following years, until
they’d sold it all.
Soon after Serum’s creation, its price had skyrocketed. Sam clearly had
not anticipated this. He now had all these employees who felt ridiculously
rich. (At least in theory, the value of Dan Friedberg’s Serum stash peaked,
in September 2021, at over $1 billion.) In Sam’s view, everyone at once
became a lot less motivated to work fourteen- hour days. And so he did a
very Sam thing: he changed the terms of the employees’ Serum. In the fine
print of the employee Serum contract, he’d reserved for himself the right to
extend Serum’s jail time, and he used it to lock up all employees’ Serum for
seven years. Sam’s employees had always known that he preferred games in
which the rules could change in the middle. They now understood that if he
had changed the rules once, he might do it again. They became less
enthusiastic about their Serum. “It was very unclear if you had it or if you
didn’t have it,” said Ramnik, who had watched in irritation as Sam locked
up a bunch of tokens that he’d bought with his own money on the open
market before he joined FTX. “I guess you would know in seven years.”
The market even for ordinary Serum tokens wasn’t great. There was no
chance that Dan Friedberg could have sold 102 million Serum tokens at the
stated market price. Serum that you effectively would not possess for seven


--- PAGE 271 ---

years and maybe not even then— who would have the courage to guess
what that was worth? Zero, perhaps? That’s what Forbes magazine had
concluded, even as Serum’s price was peaking, when they valued Sam’s
holdings. They’d treated his locked Serum tokens as if they didn’t exist.
And yet now, somehow, in John Ray’s book, the locked Serum was good
shit. Primo crypto of the finest vintage imbibed by all gentlemen of good
taste. And who knows?— maybe one day it will be. But if Serum was a
token to be taken seriously, Sam Bankman- Fried and the world he created
needed to be viewed in a different light. At Serum’s peak price, the stated
market value of Sam’s stash of it was $67 billion. On November 7, 2022,
Sam’s pile of mostly locked Serum was still “worth” billions of dollars. If
even locked Serum had that kind of value, FTX was solvent right up to the
moment it collapsed. And John Ray would have no grounds for clawing
back money from any of the many lucky people on whom Sam Bankman- ‐
Fried had showered it.
Six months into the Easter egg hunt, there was a decent argument to be
made that FTX was solvent right up to the moment it collapsed, even if
Sam’s Serum was worthless. The hunt had gone better than anyone without
a very deep working knowledge of Sam’s motives and methods could have
expected. At the end of June 2023, John Ray filed a report on his various
collections. “To date, the Debtors have recovered approximately $7 billion
in liquid assets,” he wrote, “and they anticipate additional recoveries.”
Seven point three billion, to be exact. That haul didn’t include the Serum, or
any large clawbacks, or the money stolen by the guy in Mauritius, or the
stake in Anthropic, or most of the other private investments. An investor
who was hoping to bid for the remaining portfolio told me that, if it was
sold intelligently, it should go for at least $2 billion. That would raise the
amount collected to $9.3 billion— even before anyone asked CZ for the
$2.275 billion he’d taken out of FTX. Ray was inching toward an answer to


--- PAGE 272 ---

the question I’d been asking from the day of the collapse: Where did all that
money go? The answer was: nowhere. It was still there.
Caroline had been the first to plead guilty and take whatever deal the
prosecutors had implicitly offered. Gary and Nishad soon followed. All
sorts of people who had no idea exactly what had happened inside Sam’s
World now thought they knew all they needed to know. A surprising
number of them thought the crime should have been obvious all along. It
hadn’t been. Hedge fund managers who had shorted the stocks of US banks
that banked crypto routinely spread nasty rumors about the banks’ crypto
customers, like FTX, in an attempt to damage the banks. If any of these
people had known the truth about FTX, they most certainly would have said
it. They didn’t. Even those who had expressed suspicion about Sam or FTX
had failed to say the one simple thing you would say if you knew the secret
they were hiding: the customers’ deposits that are supposed to be inside
FTX are actually inside Alameda Research.
The authorities in the Bahamas had jailed Sam and after a lot of the usual
Sam- induced complications extradited him to the United States. In an
indictment brought by the US attorney’s office for the Southern District of
New York, the US Department of Justice charged Sam with various crimes
and then allowed him to post $250 million bond as bail. Sam hadn’t posted
$250 million. Sam’s parents had posted their home and assumed the risk
that he would jump bail— in which case they would, in theory, owe $250
million to the US government. They didn’t have $250 million. The
prosecutors didn’t mind; they seemed to care mainly that the press report
that Sam Bankman- Fried was still in possession of at least $250 million.
Once that happened, lots of people who should have known better but
who’d fallen into the habit of speaking without thinking took to Twitter to
say that Sam’s ability to fork over $250 million made up their minds about


--- PAGE 273 ---

his guilt. But most people hadn’t waited even that long. “Your son is a dirty,
filthy rotten typical criminal hooky- nosed selfish greedy jew,” someone
calling himself J. Revick had emailed Joe Bankman, the day FTX filed for
bankruptcy. All the Bankman- Frieds received lots of messages like it. Joe
had written back: “Isn’t Revick a Jewish name?”
Mobs now gathered and sentiment now hardened more quickly than ever.
From a distance, it was soon easy to make up one’s mind about what had
happened inside Sam’s World, even before Sam had his day in court. From
a distance, it became almost taboo to raise any doubts about the nature of
Sam’s crime.¶¶ Up close, it was hard not to have such doubts. The closer a
person was to him, and to the business, the more questions they had about
it. Zane Tackett, for instance, could not understand why, toward the end of
2021, Sam hadn’t simply replaced the customers’ deposits inside of
Alameda Research with loans from the crypto banks. Back then, Alameda
could have borrowed $25– $30 billion without much trouble. Why not take
that money and move the $8.8 billion of customer money back into FTX, so
that if Alameda blew up it would take the crypto banks, rather than FTX,
with it? Ramnik had a different question. He and Sam had invested billions
of dollars of Alameda’s money— and yet he’d never seen Sam pay attention
to the risks Alameda was running. Sam’s attention always seemed to be
somewhere else. The question Ramnik wanted to ask Sam was, “Why the
fuck did you spend the last year playing Storybook Brawl?”
I had my own questions, of course. The first one had to do with financial
incentives. None of the characters in this financial drama had behaved as
financial characters are expected to behave. Gary had owned a piece of
Alameda Research, but his stake in FTX was far more valuable. Nishad
owned a big chunk of FTX and none of Alameda Research. Ditto Caroline,
who ran Alameda Research but owned shares only in FTX. None of these
people had any interest in moving money out of FTX into Alameda


--- PAGE 274 ---

Research in a way that put FTX in jeopardy. Just the reverse: it might as
well have been their money that was being moved. And yet at least up until
late spring of 2022, when crypto prices began to plunge, and possibly much
later than that, none of them expressed disapproval of the risk being taken
with their fortunes. Why not?
And of course there was the question that would sit in the middle of
Sam’s trial, if indeed there was a trial. Ninety percent of those accused of
crimes by the US government in 2022 had accepted a deal and pleaded
guilty. Less than half of 1 percent had been acquitted. Going to trial against
the government felt a bit like playing an away game against an opponent
that started with vast material and psychological advantages. Sam was hell- ‐
bent on going to trial— insisted that he was innocent of fraudulent intent. To
persuade others of his innocence, however, he’d need to explain why his
three closest colleagues were now willing to plead guilty. Why would
anyone say they had committed a crime when they had not? Why did they
seem themselves to believe they had committed a crime?
Sam now had a lot of time to think, and he spent a lot of it thinking about
this. Human nature had always been something of a puzzle to him, but
puzzles could be solved. He sat down to write a memo, very like those he’d
written in response to Caroline’s. He was days away from a gag order being
imposed by the judge presiding over his case, Lewis A. Kaplan, in response
to a request from federal prosecutors. But for the moment, he was still
allowed to share his thoughts. “People seem to have a really hard time
having thoughts that go out on a societal limb,” he wrote, “even if they
never have to say anything about them.” He followed this curious premise
in the usual business memo– like manner:
1. It’s almost always easy to criticize, even if you’re talking about


--- PAGE 275 ---

something popular; nothing is perfect and you never really get
punished for pointing out the bad parts of otherwise good things.
2. And it’s easy to praise something that society praises
3. But it seems like the thing that really scares people— more so
even than the threat of jail— is acknowledging internally, to
themselves, that they are an example of the person who society
disparages.
To which he added, “It’s sometimes easier for people to publicly be the
villain, than to privately have thoughts that others would judge harshly were
they to be public . . . in other words: sometimes courage of thought is even
harder than courage of action.” When the social pressure reached a certain
point, it was easier for people to cave to it than to preserve their true
identities.
As he wrote those words, he sat alone in a room in his childhood home.
He’d come full circle. He was back to where he started, only he now wore
an ankle monitor and was guarded by a German shepherd. Unable to afford
security, his parents had instead bought this extremely large dog, named
Sandor. Sandor had been flown in from Germany, where he had been
trained to kill on command. The commands were in German, however, and
while Sam’s parents had learned them, Sam had not.
The dog was there to protect Sam, and yet Sam couldn’t generate the
faintest interest in the dog. Joe had bought and read a book called Inside of
a Dog; Sam still thought books were sort of dumb and better reduced to
blog posts, and anyway he didn’t care what was inside of Sandor. And so
when Sam was in a room with the dog, it always felt as if some accident
was waiting to happen. Some terrible misunderstanding very like the
misunderstandings Sam had with other people. The odds of any accident
were obviously hard to estimate. Lower than an asteroid strike, but surely


--- PAGE 276 ---

greater than some artificial intelligence slipping its leash and wiping
humans from the face of the earth. But it would have been very Sam
Bankman- Fried to have been eaten by his own guard dog.
‡ In the first seven months alone, the professional fees would top $200 million, with Sullivan &
Cromwell the top fee earner, and they’d only just gotten started. A study made by one creditor
projected that by the time they were done, the various advisors to the bankruptcy would have taken
out a billion dollars.
§ They’d find her in a raid of her parents’ vacation house in New Hampshire. She’d moved from
Nassau to Nashua.
¶ There was one of these, too, but it was as elusive as George’s org chart. Natalie had given it to me
but with a whisper that might accompany the transfer of a classified document.
* Former FTX employees were more skeptical of Ray’s sleuths. Sam’s World controlled a great many
virtual wallets, and you sort of had to know what you were looking for to find them. “They have no
idea what are in these wallets,” said one former employee. “Even after five years, they will not
know.” As an example, he mentioned a collection of 101 Bored Ape Yacht Club non- fungible tokens,
or NFTs, that Sam had bought at auction for $24.4 million back in September 2021. They had not
been on Ray’s list of recovered assets. The former Hong Kong staff thought there was a lot like that.
† One of the lawyers responsible for at least one of the resulting raids on FTX, Kyle Roche, would be
fired by his firm after making a video explaining how he shook down crypto companies that had
actually done nothing wrong. He’d claim that he had been drugged and tricked into saying what he
had. Another story for another day.
‡‡ In a suit filed against Michael Kives for return of the $700 million Sam had invested in his K5
group of funds, Ray led with a dinner party Kives hosted on February 11, 2022, attended by Sam.
“True to Kives’s reputation as a high- profile ‘super- networker,’ ” he wrote, “the attendees at the
dinner party included a former Presidential candidate, top actors and musicians, reality TV stars and
multiple billionaires.” He then quoted from a memo he’d found, written by Sam, which described
Kives as “one- stop shop[ping] for relationships that we should utilize” and a provider of “infinite
connections.” I’d actually gone to that dinner party with Sam. Neither of us, nor any of Sam’s
colleagues, had any idea who Kives was. The dinner party invitation had come more or less out of the
blue, along with a hint about the guest list. Sam was going to be in Los Angeles anyway and decided
(as always) last- minute to see if it was real. He worried a bit how to pronounce the name of his host.
(He guessed it was KY- ves; it turned out to be KEE- vus.) His employees worried that the invitation
was a ruse to get Sam to a house in Beverly Hills so that he might be kidnapped. Adam Jacobs


--- PAGE 277 ---

followed in a car with a small team and was ready to rush the house and save Sam if he cried for
help. In this spirit, and of course wearing cargo shorts, Sam rolled into the home of a total stranger,
only to be ushered to the back lawn, where maybe sixty other guests had already gathered. Among
them: Hillary Clinton, Leonardo DiCaprio, Chris Rock, Katy Perry, Kate Hudson, Orlando Bloom,
Jeff Bezos, Doug Emhoff, and at least four Kardashians. For a moment it seemed like a play drawn
up by Fox News to dramatize one of their arguments in the culture war— but then we spotted Dallas
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, a solid Republican, and Los Angeles Rams owner “Silent Stan”
Kroenke, who had donated a million bucks to help pay for Trump’s inauguration. Sam pulled out his
phone and texted Jacobs: I think it’s real.
§§ John Ray told me that it was not but did not supply evidence. An employee of FTX US who
worked on a small team that studied the question in early November 2022 told me, “When we ran the
calculation on the US balance sheet, it was a solvent entity.”
¶¶ And basically no one did, with one fabulous exception: Kevin O’Leary. Say what you will about
his influence, he’s got some nerve.
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 278 ---

A
CODA
t the end of the week of the collapse and after everyone had fled,
George Lerner had gone into the office. Walking around, he finally
came to jungle hut 27 and Sam’s desk. That’s when he saw the toppled
king. Someone had taken the piece from an office chessboard and placed it
sideways on Sam’s keyboard. George had removed it but otherwise he’d left
the place untouched.
Six months later, it remained in nearly the same state. The Bahamas
liquidators had taken it over and used it for an office until they’d run out of
money, but it was as if their workers had been instructed to preserve the
place as you might a sacred burial ground. The framed Steph Curry jersey
still hung on the wall. The tchotchkes and coffee mugs and even the
eyeglasses of the former occupants remained on the desks exactly where
they had been when the volcano erupted. The shelves were still packed with
unhealthy vegan snacks, and FTX beer was still stacked inside the
refrigerators. “Brewed by pirates for pirates,” read the sides of the cans.
To many of the former inhabitants it was all starting to feel as if it had
been a dream. Their experience had been so different from experiences
they’d had before in their lives that it was growing harder to believe any of
it had really happened. Collectively, they were shaking themselves awake
and getting back to whoever they had been before they’d fallen asleep. You


--- PAGE 279 ---

could see this happening in real time. Even before she left the magical
island, Constance Wang had begun the process of syncing up her future
with her life before the dream. “Do I need a purpose?” she’d asked me.
“Sam made me feel like I have a purpose. Now I don’t know if I need a
purpose. Or what my purpose should be.”
I’d come back after they’d all gone, to look for something. After
searching the jungle huts I was prepared to agree with others that it, too,
had been no more than a figment of the imagination. But there was one last
place to check, an old storage unit that no one had bothered to go through.
The facility was just off the road that Sam drove every day between the
Albany resort and the jungle huts. To the naked eye, it wasn’t a place you’d
store anything of value, just lines carved in the jungle by tired- looking
buildings with corrugated metal fronts. But it was there that I found it. It
was just inside one of the ten unmarked FTX sheds. The wooden crate had
been addressed to Ryan Salame. It must have been far too heavy to move
farther into the unit, so they’d just dumped it right at the front. The tungsten
cube.
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 280 ---

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Elizabeth Riley and Jacob Weisberg read and commented upon parts of this
book. Will Bennett and Christina Ferguson researched crypto and other
questions and helped me to understand my subject better than I ever could
have on my own. Pamela Bain and Valdez Russell kept me looking forward
to yet another trip to the Bahamas. Nick Yee taught me about games, and
David Chee schooled me in Storybook Brawl. Janet Byrne is still somehow
considered my copyeditor, but with each book her influence extends further
into places that normal copyeditors never reach. And I owe more than I can
express here to my editors, Tom Penn and, of course, Starling Lawrence.
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 281 ---

ALSO BY MICHAEL LEWIS
The Premonition
The Fifth Risk
The Undoing Project
Flash Boys
Boomerang
The Big Short
Home Game
The Blind Side
Coach
Moneyball
Next
The New New Thing
Losers
Pacific Rift
The Money Culture
Liar’s Poker
EDITED BY MICHAEL LEWIS
Panic
AUDIBLE ORIGINALS
Playing to Win
The Coming Storm
OceanofPDF.com


--- PAGE 282 ---

Copyright © 2023 by Michael Lewis
All rights reserved
First Edition
Page 15: Excerpt from “Met Gala,” Wikipedia,  
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Met_Gala.  
Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0).
Page 18: Noto-Emoji is licensed under the SIL Open Font License,  
Version 1.1 available at https://scripts.sil.org/OFL.
For information about permission to reproduce selections from this book,  
write to Permissions, W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10110
For information about special discounts for bulk purchases, please contact  
W. W. Norton Special Sales at specialsales@wwnorton.com or 800-233-4830
Jacket design: Pete Garceau
Art direction: Ingsu Liu
Book design by Chris Welch
Production manager: Julia Druskin
Prepress production director: Joe Lops
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is available
ISBN 978-1-324-07433-5
ISBN 978-1-324-07434-2 (e-book)
W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10110
www.wwnorton.com
W. W. Norton & Company Ltd., 15 Carlisle Street, London W1D 3BS
OceanofPDF.com