

--- PAGE 1 ---

FTX US Balance Update 2023-01-17SBFJAN 18, 2023
2 Share
Today (January 17th, 2023), Sullivan & Cromwell (S&C) released some more informationabout FTX US. Some of this information was extremely helpful. They gavesubstantially more information on the assets that FTX US holds!Some of what S&C released is extremely misleading. In particular, they write: “Theassets identified as of the Petition Date are substantially less than the aggregate third-party customer balances suggested by the electronic ledger for FTX US.” And in apresentation, they said “Investigation has confirmed shortfalls at both Internationaland U.S. Exchanges”.These claims by S&C are wrong, and contradicted by data later on in the samedocument. FTX US was and is solvent, likely with hundreds of millions of dollars inexcess of customer balances.In the presentation that S&C formally filed on the Delaware Chapter 11 courtdocket, S&C failed to include $428m in FTX US’s bank accounts as an asset:1. $181m of digital assets, not including $428m USD in banks2. More than $181m of customer balances, including USD3. Thus, they concluded that FTX US had a “shortfall”Later in the same report, S&C reveals that FTX US has an additional $428m USD inbank accounts, on top of the $181m of tokens—for roughly $609m of total assets.Customer balances are likely around $199m, and certainly less than $497m (which theywere a day earlier before massive withdrawals).Thus FTX US had at least $111m, and likely around $400m, of excess cash on top ofwhat was required to match customer balances.
(The S&C rows here are copied directly from the numbers disseminated by S&C itself.)FTX US is solvent. Customers should be given access to their funds.
In my previous post, I outlined the last FTX US balance sheet we had created. Thiswas created early in the morning on November 10th, 2022.
This balance sheet showed FTX US overcapitalized by roughly $350m.As a contrast, S&C is now claiming that there is a “shortfall” at FTX US, where “theassets identified as of the petition date are substantially less than the aggregate third-party customer balances”. As far as I can tell, by “petition date” they mean November11th, 2022. (November 11th is in fact the petition date for most entities, but notactually for FTX US; that was the 14th. You can tell they mean the 11th because theysequence this as happening before the hack late on the night of the 11th when they say“$90 million of which was subject to unauthorized third-party transfers post-petition”.)That means that they’re using a snapshot about one day after mine, which means thatwhile our net numbers should be similar, they are likely to find substantially lowerasset and substantially lower customer balances that I did—as there were netwithdrawals on November 10th.A straightforward reading of S&C’s statements suggests they are making a large andbasic mistake. They claim that “the FTX Debtors have identified approximately $181million of digital assets associated with FTX US as of the Petition Date”. “Digitalassets” isn’t defined, but one might interpret it to include tokens but not bankbalances. They go on to say that “The assets identified as of the Petition Date aresubstantially less than the aggregate third-party customer balances suggested by theelectronic ledger for FTX US.” ‘The assets’ is not defined, but it would be reasonableto suspect it’s the same asset class as referenced above—which is to say, potentiallyonly tokens and not cash. ‘Third-party customer balances’, on the other hand, does notspecify anything about non-USD balances, and so one could imagine it referring to fullcustomer balances, including USD. If both of those guesses were true, their statementwould merely be saying that full customer balances, including USD, were larger thandigital wallet assets, excluding bank balances, and that the “shortfall” might simply becustomer balances that are fully backed by dollars in one of FTX US’s bank accounts—not a real shortfall at all.This does in fact seem to be the mistake they made.They claim there were “$181m of digital assets” on November 11th. As of November11th, FTX US Derivatives (LedgerX) had $250m in a segregated bank account, meantto eventually be used as regulatory capital if the futures margin proposal were to beapproved. $250m > $181m, so we can prove that, in fact, the $181m does not includebank balances.And a graphic confirms this: that the whole $181m ended up in either a hot wallet,BitGo cold storage, or hacked. In other words, digital tokens.
So we can confirm that they are not including bank balances as part of “the assets”,and are then comparing “the assets” to “customer balances” (including customer USDbalances). It’s a meaningless comparison!We can do more here, though, because they gave out more info in the slide deck.
50
Summary
Details



--- PAGE 2 ---

$428m! That’s $428m of cash in bank accounts that S&C failed to include when theydetermined there was a ‘shortfall’ based on $181m of assets.There are a few nuances here. The bank balances they quote show $128.4m inLedgerX. That likely means it was taken after they transferred some money fromLedgerX to FTX US (possibly to cover the FTX US hack); given that I think there waspreviously $250m in LedgerX, they likely moved roughly $122m or so over. It’s notexactly clear to me what “Other Restricted Cash” means. My calculations are all priorto the $88m hack; so as of today, maybe things are $88m worse. And finally, thereseems to be roughly $34m in corporate bank accounts of other subsidiaries that aren’tpart of the Chapter 11 process.Anyway—here’s what I get, comparing my records to S&C’s presentation.
(The S&C rows here are copied directly from the numbers disseminated by S&C itself.)The presentation and press release don’t actually say what customer balances are, butby claiming that FTX US has $181m of digital assets and also has a customer shortfall,S&C is implying that customer balances are greater than $181m. They’re almostcertainly less than $497m—what they were a day earlier—given the withdrawals inbetween. So that gives two bounds on what it could be. My best guess comes fromlooking at changes in FBO bank accounts and tokens. In theory those two should be atleast equal to customer balances; in the balance sheet on the 10th, FBO + tokens wereroughly $11m greater than customer balances. “Max Customer” and “Min NAV” makethe conservative assumption that somehow customer balances were still $497m on the11th; “Est” makes the reasonable assumption that [FBO + Token - Customer Balances]stayed constant at $11m between the two days. Or, in other words: if nothing unusualhappened on November 10th, the $298m decrease in FTX US’s custodial assets wouldimply a $298m decrease in customer balances, both stemming from $298m of customerwithdrawals. That would imply that customer balances were roughly $199m.Anyway, this is a long way of saying: I had estimated roughly $350m more cash onhand than customer balances required (NAV). Using the extremely conservativeestimates, their presentation implies a NAV of roughly +$111m, and using the morereasonable estimate you get a NAV of +$409m—pretty close to my number.All of which is to say: one way or another, their data actually confirms that FTX USwas extremely likely to be solvent when I handed it off, with at the very least $111m ofexcess cash; it also implies that my estimate of +$350m excess cash was probablyroughly correct, though there isn’t enough information to actually prove that
S&C claims that FTX US has a shortfall. That claim is false. Based on S&C’s own dataprovided in the same court presentation, FTX US had roughly $609m of assets ($428mUSD in bank accounts, plus $181m of tokens) backing roughly $199m of customerbalances. FTX US was solvent when it was turned over to S&C, and almost certainlyremains solvent today.
Recommend SBFʼs Substack to your readers
50 Likes∙2 Restacks
Recommend
© 2026SBF · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection noticeSubstackis the home for great culture