

--- PAGE 1 ---

Caroline Ellison and the hedge fund thatwouldn’t hedgeHow fitting is the Alameda CEO’s sentence for her role in the FTX saga?ASTRIASEP 26, 2024
ShareFormer Alameda CEO Caroline Ellison was sentenced on Tuesday to two years’imprisonment and ordered to forfeit $11bn for her role in the FTX collapse.The prison sentence is considerably less than the maximum she faced of 110 years,much less than SBF’s 25 years, notably less than Ryan Salame’s 7 ½ years, but more thanhad generally been anticipated. The government’s sentencing submission for their starwitness against SBF had been nothing but glowing. The probation department hadrecommended a sentence of time served. Prediction market Polymarket suggested onlya 16% chance of 24+ months. Even the judge was effusive: “I've seen a lot ofcooperators in 30 years here. I've never seen one quite like Ms. Ellison.”
Source: https://x.com/mdudas/status/1838680342569378018The contrast between Ellison’s sentence and Salame’s surely creates a questionableincentive structure: if you take part in a crime, get yourself more deeply involved sothat if caught, you can earn yourself leniency through cooperation.Ellison and SBF faced the same maximum sentence of 110 years, while Salame facedup to 10 years; no one denies that Salame was far less deeply involved than they were.But by remaining on the periphery, Salame clearly had a lot less information to bargainwith. In fact, Salame claims that he cooperated with authorities from day 1 to the bestof his ability, but when it came to helping the government convict other allegedcriminals, he had “nothing to offer them without lying”.And it appears that assistance putting others behind bars is the type of “cooperation”that really mattered in the end. While Judge Kaplan showered praise on Ellison for hercooperation, he dismissed Salame’s as self-interest, even though Ellison only startedcooperating seven days after Salame when the FBI raided her home.
Source: https://x.com/rsalame7926/status/1838748793627455674The shortcomings of the plea bargain system have been covered extensively elsewhere.Perhaps there exists a better alternative. Perhaps it is the worst system of justiceexcept for all the others. Or perhaps its superiority depends on the details of itsimplementation. The ethics and efficacy of the practice in general is not my focushere.But given the central importance of Ellison’s testimony in convincing a jury to findSBF guilty, this case may present a particularly compelling illustration of the injusticethat can occur when the plea bargain system fails. “Cooperating” might be consideredmore deserving of reward the more critical it is to securing a just conviction, but thismust be tempered by the ever-present possibility that the testimony is false, and howmuch more regrettable it is the more critical a cooperator is to securing a wrongfulconviction.In its 5K1 letter for Ellison, the government makes clear its position that without herhelp, their efforts to convict the Crypto King would have failed: “[Ellison’s]extraordinary cooperation…was crucial to the Government’s successful prosecution ofSamuel Bankman-Fried…Ellison’s testimony was a cornerstone of the trial againstBankmanFried. As Alameda’s nominal CEO and Bankman-Fried’s former girlfriend,Ellison was uniquely positioned to explain not only the what and how of Bankman-Fried’s crimes, but also the why….Ellison’s testimony was critical to indict and convictBankman-Fried, and to understanding both the timeline of the fraud schemes, and thevarious layers of wrongdoing. In short, the ‘what’ and ‘how’ of the crimes, as well asthe ‘why,’ would have been difficult to prove without Ellison’s testimony, and, at thevery least, the Government’s evidence on these points would have been incomplete.”The lead prosecutor reiterated at Ellison’s sentencing hearing, “I cannot overstate theimportance of Ms. Ellison's testimony in convicting Sam Bankman-Fried.” (Emphasisadded.)
What’s particularly interesting is how much of Ellison’s “crucial” evidence is simply acase of her word against his.
In the words of Ellison’s lawyers, “Caroline identified [an] otherwise-anonymousspreadsheet…[which] became the centerpiece of the government’s case against Mr.Bankman-Fried for fraud and conspiracy against the lenders to Alameda Research.”The government adds, “Metadata also showed that Bankman-Fried reviewed thespreadsheet immediately before Ellison converted one of the fraudulent spreadsheettabs into a balance sheet to send to an Alameda lender”. But evidence that SBF openeda spreadsheet before Ellison sent it to her lender hardly seems sufficient proof for twoof his seven counts.The accompanying testimony may therefore have been pivotal. Ellison told the jury—without evidence—that SBF “suggested that I should prepare some alternative ways ofpresenting the information…I understood him to be directing me to come up withways to conceal the things in our balance sheet that we both thought looked bad” andthat “Sam said that we should use alternative 7”.
Plea deals: incentivising being closer tothe action
Plea deals: incentivising lying
Cold, hard evidence vs. he-said-she-said
Ellison and SBF’s convictions for fraud and conspiracyagainst lenders


--- PAGE 2 ---

SBF, on the other hand, testified to having no memory of looking at other versions ordiscussing their differences (and prosecutors blocked his attempt to answer thequestion: “Did the topic of limiting any of the materials sent to the lenders come up?”).Ellison also conceded on cross-examination that the lender had requested a “[f]aster,more informal” version of a balance sheet. Since all fast, informal summaries of acompany’s financial situation necessarily omit some information, the defence’s versionof events seems to have been: Ellison sought a quick second opinion about whatinformation to prioritise for her rough-and-ready balance sheet, and SBF agreed thather choices looked reasonable.
Ellison describes the relevant interaction as something close to an explicit order fromSBF to repay lenders with customer funds: “He continued to direct me to repayloans….I understood that he was telling me to borrow money using our FTX line ofcredit to repay loans”.However, in SBF’s retelling, he was simply agreeing with her decision to repay loansthat had been called: "Caroline said that, given this update that Alameda was not infact bankrupt…it probably made sense to go ahead and send back loans to lenders whowere asking for loans back from Alameda, and I said that that sounded right to me".(Wang’s report of the meeting is ambiguous: “[H]e turned to Caroline and said thatAlameda can go ahead and return the borrows.")
As some commentators have noted, “For white collar fraud, it’s really hard to proveintent…The government just really made it clear Caroline Ellison made that job wayeasier”. In its 5K1 letter, the government lists two other examples of how “Carolinetestified credibly and in detail about numerous communications she had with Mr.Bankman-Fried that definitively established his criminal [intent]...Bankman-Fried’ssummer 2021 instruction for Alameda Research to use FTX.com customer funds torepurchase FTX equity from Binance [and]...Bankman-Fried’s fall 2021 decision tofund $3 billion in ‘venture’ investments with borrowed funds”.Ellison contradicts both claims when recalling on the stand how she confessed to herstaff “that Alameda had made billions of dollars of venture investments and hadbought back FTX equity from Binance using open-term loans and that when the loanshad been recalled, we had to use or we did use FTX customer funds to repay them,which had caused the shortfall” in customer funds (emphasis added).
As Alameda started collapsing in November 2022, Ellison wrote: “This is the bestmood I've been in in like a year…I think I just had an increasing dread of this day thatwas weighing on me for a long time, and now that it's actually happening, it just feelsgreat to get it over with one way or another.” At trial, she tearfully described the all-hands meeting she led on November 9, 2022: “I felt a sense of relief that I didn’t haveto lie anymore, that I could start taking responsibility and being honest about what Ihad done…I never liked misleading my employees. I felt really bad about it, but I feltsort of trapped in the summer of 2022, because I was worried that if I revealedAlameda's actual financial situation to anyone, including our employees, that the newswould get out and that people would withdraw their funds from FTX, causingAlameda and FTX to collapse. By the time of this all hands…meeting in November, ithad already happened, so I felt free to be honest with employees at that point, as…I hadwanted to before but felt like I couldn’t.”Ellison is invariably portrayed here as having “forthrightly disclosed the fraud at theheart of FTX and Alameda Research” and “acknowledged her responsibility for thosecrimes without reservation”. But the private writings included with her sentencingsubmission offer an alternative explanation for her early November 2022 comments:she was simply ashamed of her own incompetence.“I almost feel like I'm living a lie,” Ellison confesses to her journal in April 2022,“because people don't realize how little I'm working and what a shitty job I'm doingand am worried either that people will find out or that people already know and arejudging me and think I'm terrible” (emphasis added). She describes herself “scrollingaimlessly through slack, etc” and wonders if part of the reason is that “trading is lessgood than last year”. In the summer of 2020, she wonders if she should “somehow getSam to date me” to try to solve her emotional instability, because “maybe a lot of stufftraces back to feeling romantically rejected by Sam” and “[a] lot of what stresses meout about work is specifically failing Sam, or Sam’s disapproval.” “I feel despair andfeel like there’s no hope of him ever loving me,” she continues, “then I just feel angryand hurt and want to lash out [and] this makes me want to be as pathetic as possible,so he’ll feel bad for hurting me”.SBF’s protestation that Alameda’s undoing was largely the result of Ellison’s failure tohedge was not simply a post hoc attempt to recast his own criminality as Ellison’sincompetency. Ellison herself describes how SBF reminded her in August 2022 “thathe thought Alameda should have hedged way more earlier in the year and that it was abig mistake and that it was my fault and that I was largely responsible for the financialsituation that Alameda had ended up in.” She goes on to admit, “I thought that Iabsolutely could and should have done things differently, and that I could have hedgedmore earlier in the year”, but she hadn’t because “[h]is suggested hedging strategy waswe should have sold more stock market futures earlier in the year, and I thought that itwasn't necessarily clear, without hindsight, that [it] was a good idea.” Moreimportantly, in one of the government’s own exhibits from September 2022, SBFcomplains to Wang and Singh about how Alameda “didn't hedge”, saying that it “costmore…than all the money Alameda has ever made or ever will make, and that's the kindof critical mistake we're likely to make if I'm not actually running the show here”(emphasis added).Moreover, the straight-faced contention that Ellison “forthrightly disclosed the fraud”to her staff and “acknowledged her responsibility for those crimes withoutreservation” makes me wonder if anyone has actually read the all-hands transcript.There is no mention of criminality at this meeting and while Ellison apologises to heremployees for the collapse of the company because it “really sucks for all of you guys”,she expresses no remorse for customers and lenders—who she expects will be repaid.When asked what Binance’s due diligence might uncover that might “kill the deal” tobail out FTX, she does not answer, “A multi-year multi-billion-dollar fraud directed bySam,” she replies, “I like don't actually know, like it seems pretty, like I feel like FTX islike pretty like kinda straightforward business in a way, I mean, except for having likea big shortfall in user balances, except that [Binance] knows about that. So, yeah, Idon't know. But, I mean, also, yeah I guess I understand [Binance’s] desire to do at leastsome amount of [due diligence]”. (At this point, the “shortfall” is public knowledge, butthat does not imply fraud. Later that day, Binance says that because of its due diligenceand new reports of criminal activity, it’s killing the deal.) Ellison even wraps up with acomment that the meeting had been “kind of fun.”A few more tidbits:The government argues that “Ellison’s testimony was credible for its consistencyand her earnest demeanor on the stand”. But Michael Lewis challenges theauthenticity of this demeanour, noting her transformation from “unafraid to speakher mind” around SBF pre-trial into “cowering underling” on the witness stand.Nothing in Ellison’s journal entries and reference letters suggests that SBFencouraged her infatuation with him. On the contrary, there is evidence that shehad a history of struggling to accept rejection—a friend of Ellison’s recounts how“there were a couple of [other] situations where she became involved inrelationships that were not particularly good for her”, including one where herpartner said that “he felt it was unlikely that he ever would” love her and yet, “shecontinued to date him for the better part of a year after that”.Judge Kaplan justified a lengthy, “disabling” prison term for SBF in part byquoting Ellison on his political aspirations. But Ellison also once included in a listof things that make men more attractive: “low risk aversion” and “controllingmost major world governments”. No pressure there, then.So on the one hand we have the prevailing narrative—backed by the government andEllison’s plea-deal testimony—of Ellison as a “front” who “further[ed] Bankman-Fried’s scheme and its concealment” and was “directed…to commit these crimes”. Onthe other, private comments and observations tracing a struggling but strong-mindedCEO who refused her boyfriend’s pleas to hedge, and then was too embarrassed toadmit how poorly she was running the company. (Frankly, it’s not clear to me if any ofthe accused thought Alameda’s borrowing from FTX was wrong prior to their pleas.And SBF, of course, has never wavered in affirming his innocence. As observed by his
Ellison and/or SBF’s decision to repay lenders
Venture investments and the Binance buyback
Lying about fraud vs. lying about failure


--- PAGE 3 ---

defence counsel, “none of the witnesses at this trial testified that Sam told them ordirected them to violate the law or said or did anything that showed he thought he wasviolating the law”. Stories for another day.)Either way, Ellison lied. A lot. Whether she’s been given a fair sentence for those lies isa judgement I leave to the reader.
If Ellison’s testimony was critical to the case against SBF, was it also critical to thecase against herself? She’d certainly like us to think so, casting herself as adowntrodden foot soldier, blindly obedient to a man she idolised in a misguidedattempt to earn his love. But if it’s true that her efforts to save herself by sacrificingher partner backfired, then there’s a terrible irony in her being the daughter of anexpert in the prisoner’s dilemma. Blockworks’ likening of the FTX saga to the parodyshow Jury Duty is holding up rather well.Thanks for reading FTX: Act 3! Subscribe forfree to receive new posts and support my work.
Recommend FTX: Act 3 to your readersAnalysis and commentary on the latest developments in the FTX saga.
Discussion about this post
A final thought
Recommend
Previous Next
Write a comment...
© 2026Astria · Privacy ∙ Terms ∙ Collection noticeSubstackis the home for great culture
CommentsRestacks